Saturday – August 5, 2023
Global Call

Japan

Admiral KODA Yoji- former Vice Chairman JSDF, and Commander
Japan Fleet

Mr. Tom SATO – COO, VeriCloud

Mr. HAMADA Naoto

Mr. Max YAMAMOTO - Student, Tokyo University

U.S.

Admiral Paul David Miller - Admiral, U.S. Navy (ret)

Mr. Jerry Hultin - Chairman, Global Futures Group 

Professor Joshua Mitchell - Georgetown University

Dr. Tyvin Rich, M.D., FACR - radiation oncologist at the Hampton University Proton 	Therapy Institute and Professor Emeritus at the University of Virginia.  Chief 	Medical Officer, Shuttle Pharmaceuticals

Dr. Alfred Wilhelm

Dr. Victor Gaetan – International Correspondent, National Catholic Register

Mr. Peter Bloom - Chairman- BridgingVoice

Mr. Peter Psaras - Former IBM Corporation & Current Advisory Board Member for a 	number of software and technology companies

Mr. John Alton - founder of Pulsatile International, and the author 	of Autonomic 
Intelligence: Pathway to the Pulsatile Self and Sustainable 	Health

Mr. Jason LaBouyer - SR21

Mr. Phil Midland - SR21

Singapore

Mr. KHOR Zijian - Ministry of Sustainability and the Environment, Singapore

Mr. LIN Fang-Yi - Student, University of Illinois

Philippines

	Sister Nilda Castro

Sri Lanka

Devinda Subasinghe - former Ambassador of Sri Lanka to the United States

UAE

Sheikh Hamdan bin Mohammed bin Rashid Al Maktoum

Russia

	Dmitry Traevich - SUEK 

Sweden

Lieutenant General Johan Kihl – Former Commander Special Forces Sweden and Deputy Supreme Commander of the Swedish Military Forces

Ireland

	Louis Curran

Monaco
	
D. Alvaro de Orléans-Borbón

Brazil

Dr. Roberto Alverez – Executive Director, Global Federation of Competitiveness 	Councils (GFCC)

Cameroon

	Dr. Nkem Khumbah - University of Michigan, Chairman - Africa Development Futures 	Group (ADFG), the Global Federation of Competitiveness Councils (GFCC)






	Pre-call Discussion

Phil

Good afternoon Johan.   Seems there are still issues in Sweden regarding demonstrations burning the Koran.

Lieutenant General Johan Kihl

Right now it is different reason why they're doing this. Some of them are doing that to make sure that it's a lot of publicity, and so they can be seen and be famous.  I guess because they had done it. The other part is refugees were afraid that we will send them back to their countries and they know that if they burn Koran there is a risk for life in their home countries and then if it is, then we are not allowed to send them back. So there's certain reasons why they're doing this, and unfortunately the police are forced to act, and they have been overruled by court when they tried to say no burning. 

Phil

Alvaro. Good afternoon. Is the race over? 

D Alvaro de Orléans-Borbón

No, it's a rainy day. There's no competition. Completely an odd spot, but anyhow. 

Phil

Well, we really enjoyed your video. Thanks for sending that. 

Alvaro

It was just handheld during the competition, but I don't want to distract the proceedings.

Phil

Johann was just making some comments about these challenges for Sweden with the Koran burning. 

Alvaro

It's very complicated because I have very strong feelings about it. I think that it is a lack of respect of somebody else's beliefs. And that is very strange because, if somebody went to us and said our constitution is trash, or the American flag is useless, or these kind of things, we start burning them, we would resent it. And while there is clearly a limit to free speech, also you cannot say ‘fire’ in the crowded cinema.  But you should also maintain respect for somebody else's fundamental beliefs. You cannot trample them, in my opinion. At least you should not. It's a matter of ethics. So it's a complicated situation.

I was wondering why Sweden and Denmark are also afflicted by these people? It seems to be these people are trying to provoke everybody else into a difficult situation, and it's very bad. 

Phil

Johan, do you want to comment on that.

Lieutenant General Johan Kihl

The reason for that is there is no punishment for that in Sweden. So it's fully legal. And therefore, as I said, there's a lot of people right now who want to do that to be shown, and they will be know in the newspaper, in TV and whatever.  That's sad. And they do it because they know there's no punishment in Sweden for doing that. It's legal. Unfortunately. 

But I think the police are very upset now that they had to protect those crazy people who are doing this. And they have tried a couple of times not to say ‘no,’ but have been stopped by the court. So that's the tricky situation and I think it's time for the government to react and make something about this. That's probably the end of the whole story. 

Alvaro

It's almost a democratic test. I mean, it's a parliamentary reaction and it should be swift in such a situation because it harms the interest of the people very clearly. 

Johan

But I mean it's hard to see that you can connect so easily the freedom of speech with burning the Koran in places you decide. I think that's very strange to me.  But it's what it is. 

Alvaro

I feel very strongly it's a matter of paying respect to somebody else's fundamental beliefs. If you trample this, I think it's almost as bad as limiting speech. 

I mean, the Koran, for a large part of the global population is the fundamental origin of their community rules of behavior.  I mean, to start trampling this openly and in a clearly hostile way, for instance, in Mediterranean Italy, certainly I know this because I was taught at school, there is a law that says you cannot tell the President of the country is a ‘jerk.’  You cannot. It's an insult. And not only it's extended by if I remember now, it’s even extended to the head of states of other countries. It's not done. It's a matter of respect - respect is a fundamental right of humanity.   A fundamental duty of humanity that is a counterpart in dignity.   To trample on the dignity of other people, I mean, it's as bad as limiting the freedom of speech. But I talk in too much. Sorry. I don't want to go deeper into this. 
Phil

Not at all. I think most of us would find what you're saying in agreement. And we got a worldwide problem in that area right now. 

We're not going to have a lot of people today. I know that because Mr. Nishi is on holiday. Admiral Miller is on his way to Hawaii, and Howard may join us but he is in Japan, or should have landed in Japan by now, and he's meeting Jesper tomorrow in Kyoto. 




Discussion

Phil

Louis, if you don't mind, and you've been very active on your various Chat groups, which you share with me and then some with all of us over the past week. And there have been economic movements, especially in China - if you could open with a summary of where you think things are, please.

Mr. Louis Curran

Yeah, sure. Good afternoon - evening - morning - bonjourno, and all the other languages. 

First of all, Alvaro, we want more video pics of you in the Alps or wherever in the Meso Giorno, wherever it is you're flying. And if there's a spare seat, a jump seat, I'm up for it.  Absolutely. I'm all over it. It's great to see individual achievements, and it's really great to see you out and enjoy this yourself. 

First off, I see Nkem comes on the Chat this morning. He's a big smiling face, as usual. 

I think just there was the importance of the uprisings that's taking place against colonial powers in Africa, and the Global South's rejection of G-20 / Davos. I think one of the battlegrounds of this tension is going to take place in Africa. And so, the individual micro-stories of Africa in this regard, and I don't know if Roberto is on the call as well, but also watching how the China-U.S., Russia, G-20 tension is playing out in Latin America. I know that in Brazil is going to be hosting a conference of nations coming together. And so we're seeing all of these regional microcosms of tension with the Global North. 

And I think that the lightning rod of all of that is the tension, is that all of them are dependent on the Dollar in some way, shape or form. And we've had a massive downgrade of the U.S. credit rating.  Now, it made a lot of noise. It led to a jump higher in interest rates in the United States. If you watch the Chat Group.  And even if markets don't really matter to you, most of you all have a mortgage. So what's happening in U.S. interest rates impacts your mortgages, every one of you, everywhere in the world. And so the relevance of this, even if you don't understand the relationship between me and markets, and what's happening in your particular field, it relates to your mortgage every day. So I think that there's some value for that. 

And so the simple point as on the charts, and one of the things that I try and do when I explain what's going on is I believe in cartoons. I believe that you can cross a river using the Verrazzano, a big structured suspension bridge, or you can use stepping stones. The simple idea is that you get people to the other side of the river, and cartoons and pictures are very good at explaining stuff. So you see a lot of pictures when I put stuff on the Chat Group. 

So, the one big picture that I highlighted during the week, or two that were significant, the first of which was U.S. Interest rates. And I have on my picture a line do not cross here because it's an abyss. That is 4.25% in U.S. - ten year interest rates. And we had a downgrade in U.S. debt. Personally, I don't think it's going to mean that much. I think that the trip by Janet Yellen, in particular, the U.S. Treasury Secretary, previously she was the head of the Federal Reserve. She's highly regarded. I think the trip by Dr. Kissinger, again, a really significant event. 

What you're starting to see is there's a realization, as Elon Musk has pointed out, that China and the United States, the West and China are all interlinked like conjoined twins. And now we've pushed the global economy to a very dangerous place. And just my feeling is that people are kind of going, step away from the cookie jar. Let's step back the tension, the economic downfall for implications for all of the people in the world are really significant. 

So, first of all, the emerging market world - Africa, Latin America, if interest rates in the United States break above 4.25%, that is going to have real repercussions in stock markets, in the availability of credit, etc.  Keep an eye on that chart, and I will be putting it up, I'm sure, over the week. But what we saw earlier on in the week was in Japan, the Japanese have had interest rates below zero for nearly 20 years.  And there are generations of young adults who've never experienced a hike in interest rates, and one doesn't know yet what the implication will be. 

So we had two major events last week which led to global interest rates across the board popping higher. And the question is, will we move across that abyss and into a world of stock market sell off, unemployment rising very rapidly, etc?  So we're at a very precarious position. 

I would just highlight one thing, and that is that we got to near 4.2%. So within five basis points, which is in the scheme of things, minuscule.  We got to five basis points of that level over the last two days. And we reversed a little yesterday. I can't emphasize enough we are at a right angle at the edge of the cliff, and we need to stop here, because if we don't, it's Armageddon.

Yesterday evening, one of the things that we've been discussing here, and we're seeing the implications, AI in this tech space.  If you look at stock markets across the world, but particularly in the United States, it's seven major corporations, a large number of them with AI related themes that have lifted, Microsoft in particular, as one, Nvidia two. All of these stocks have all done very, very well.  Apple was a bit slow to the AI party, but it has its own ecosystem and its valuation over the week crossed above $3 trillion. Its GDP is bigger than countries globally.  But there was some bad economic data, and so there was a bit of a worrying wobble in the price of Apple yesterday. 
So as we have discussed in this Chat group, and I continuously highlight with Peter's joining of the group and the conversation around AI, you've seen a huge uplift in stock markets.  We've seen, for instance, Nvidia is up 65% or 70%. And what we saw yesterday was just one of the jewels in the crown in the tech sector, and Apple having a proper wobble.  It'll be interesting to see if interest rates were to break that 4.25%. All of these markets are very elevated and it could have significant repercussions. 

I'll come back to Japan. It'll be very interesting to see if the BOJ are able that's the Bank of Japan, the Japanese central bank - they've had interest rates below zero for over 20 years now. Jesper believes that they have everything within their control, and that they're able to exit the situation easily - they're able to navigate the exit, that is moving to higher interest rates from having interest rates at or below zero for 20 years. A few very smart people in my universe are quite concerned about their ability to do so. 

There's just one last observation. I'm am in information, I wish I had the AI skill sets. I watch markets and information very carefully. One thing that's come up on my radar screen in the last two days is the reemergence of COVID.  So I've seen three or four stories in outlying hinterlands where people are talking about new derivatives of COVID, and the mention of COVID is coming up.  Don't know if it's significant, but know certainly one to watch.  

So that's as much as I have to contribute today. And thank you and welcome to everybody. 

Phil

Thanks, Louis. 

Jaymie, you had a question in the chat.  During the week chat, you also had a question for Louis. Would you like to pose it now? 

Mr. Jaymie Durnan

The week yeah, we'll take offline.  But I just would like to throw this out and trying to understand - Louis has been really good about explaining what's going on in the world, but the question I have is what are the implications?  What are the possible implications over the next 10 to 20 years? What are the trends we should be looking for?  Because I believe I'm too close to the issue, and that I'm not seeing the longer term implications of this. And so probably not time for an answer now, but I'd love to have a discussion on what this looks like over the next 10 to 20 years - for the global economy, for the U.S., and in particular for China. 

So that's what I'm interested in at the moment. Phil, thanks.

Louis
 
I think the real scare, the couple of things that this green agenda is inflationary, from my perspective, and where it’s going to.  And this is where I'm seeing a number of people who felt that the Western response to Coronavirus, and the orchestrated governmental response - there are a number of people in the market community that I speak with. Yes, it's a bit conspiratorial, but I think the best statistic that I can give you - 

The Irish are kind of like sheep. We want to be the best in citizen people in Europe. If Europe says jump up and down, we'll all jump up and down. In Ireland, the Irish government follows every mandate that comes from Europe. Absolutely. And so there wasn't much daylight between the Irish government response to COVID and what I experienced in Singapore at the same time. So I moved in the middle of COVID from Singapore to Ireland.  There was no noticeable difference. I was leaving Singapore for my liberty. I was locked in the 17th floor of an apartment. 

I came to Ireland just a little small, anecdotal or funny story, show you how small communities can be. I'm the son of a local doctor in a local community. My father is dead - ten years, okay? But everybody in the community for 15 miles around where my home is will know who I am.  I haven't been back at home for three years. And in the middle of COVID I decided to uproot my family from Singapore, where we were locked into our apartment and we moved back to Ireland.

I drove in on a Saturday afternoon, and I went to my local grocery store to get provisions to go back to my family home. Within an hour of being at home, having not been at home for three years, the local police sergeant turned up at our back door. He knew that I had come from Asia, and his bush telegraph told him that I had come home. Now, that level of supervision here in Ireland is significant. We followed the COVID protocols to the letter of the law. 

15% of all government health workers are now vaccinated, not 99% as it was in the middle of COVID.  So there's a certain level I am seeing in markets people who are a little more advanced, a little better researched and a little more independent of mind, where they felt that the orchestrated campaign by government, particularly in the West, was very controlling and not necessarily worthwhile. 

Why is this relevant? Because I'm starting to see the same equation followed through in terms of the response to climate change, in response to the whole ESG agenda. Okay? So why I'm bringing these things up is that for me, what I see in G-20 in particular is a bias now that instead of dealing with coronavirus, the new agenda is climate change et.  You know, ocean temperatures are on the roof. But one of the things is if this rigorous governmental approach in the West - Biden is doing it.  We're seeing it in Europe in particular. If that approach continues, from what I can see, the implications in terms of inflation are going to be outstanding. 

And I think if you want to think about 10 or 20 year trend, this ESG green agenda, climate change is not going to go away anytime soon. And while the central banks at the moment are just in the fight of their lives just to try and reestablish credibility.  Most people here have 15 or 20 years experience of markets.  Interest rates in Europe 15 or 20 years.  We're one year into higher interest rates and everybody is hoping that interest rates will turn lower. 

If you want to talk about a 20-year trend, the importance of the ESG agenda to inflation, and then the consequent impact on global interest rates - instead of them being centered on two, imagine them centered on eight. So that's a fourfold increase in interest rates. Think about your mortgage cost. I think that that's one thing. 
And this is why I am so interested in what Peter and the AI world has to contribute. What is going to be the impact on productivity, on unemployment? Where is that story? Because for me, the counterbalance - we've also been discussing this superconductivity as well. This is again a theme for me. I'm not an expert in any of these things. But what I look is at the bottom line. 

We have on one side this green ESG agenda that will push interest rates, maybe by a factor of three or four higher in your experience set.  And what will AI superconductivity - what are those implications to neutralize that inflationary effect?  Because the world is highly leveraged across the property markets, commercial real estate, the liquidity that we've seen pumped into the system for the last 20 years has been taken away, and on the other side of it not just that it's been taken away is that there's an inflationary impulse that's set to keep pushing interest rates higher. 

So, if that is one big picture story that, forget about the geopolitics of the West and the Global South, that's a story that's not going away for anybody.  And I think that that's one of the themes, and that for me is one of the benefits of the interaction with all of the other participants in the group. 

Phil

Thank you Louis. 

Peter, you raised your hand. 

Mr. Peter Bloom

Louis, I just want to say, every Saturday I just learn so much from you. I really, really appreciate it. I really don't know much about Ireland, so now I've learned more about Irish villages, which is awesome. 

I think the canary in the mine that you can pay attention to, to answer Louis's question, is the container market and the destruction of the longshoreman’s job. 

So what happened was it used to be, as we all know back in the before longshoremen did physical labor of loading and unloading ships. Then, of course, containerization came about, and we all know what happened. Containerization pretty much changed forever the job complexion of longshoremen. And most of them ended up managing containers, and there were far fewer. 

What's really interesting about AI now, and Louis specifically to your question is the advent of robots in global shipping is literally wiping out the job of longshoremen. So it used to be that you could be a longshoreman and at least have something to do with containerization. You would unload containers, you would load containers, you would move containers. And in the last couple of years, there have been some significant advances related to AI and in the container business, and I think you will see that that job sector, in my view, is a canary in the mine of the evolution of how AI will start to affect some of these industries. So I do encourage you to just pay attention to what's going on in the global shipping industry, because it's becoming automated at a rate that most people don't realize. 
The second thing I want to talk about just quickly, it's not related to Louis's comment, but I thought I found it incredibly interesting this is one of those unexpected consequences that I certainly never thought about or never saw coming. If I defame one of you, and I basically have a public accusation against you of some heinous act for which you are not responsible, then you can come after me and basically sue me, at least in U.S. courts, for defamation, and you may very well win.  As you know, and as an example, when you see what happened with Prince Harry and his lawsuits against the British tabloids are an example.

Well, there have now been a couple cases where AI has either intentionally or unintentionally defamed people. So people are basically putting in AI queries and finding out ‘so and so is a child predator.’ And that goes up on the Internet, destroys someone's life, and it actually turns out that it was a hallucination. We talked about hallucinations and the sort of AI's tendency to make things up when it doesn't know the answer. And the legal question that's come up is, well, who do you sue? There are a couple of cases now, people whose literally lives have been destroyed because they've been accused of these, falsely accused using AI, of these heinous acts. 
And it's a really interesting and unsettled question about who's liable when AI defames a human being?  And I think we will start to see more cases like that, which are pretty fascinating. 

And then the third thing I just wanted to tell you about, again, one of these ‘didn't see it coming.’ I was having a talk yesterday, and I thought of this group because I thought how interesting you would find a talk with one of the world's leaders on perception and machine vision. And simply put, machine vision is at the absolute foundational technology for self driving cars and other autonomous robots.  It has to be able to see what it's doing, and decide whether it should make a decision or not based on what it's seeing. So I'm talking to this guy, and he's an incredible expert. And he just goes, look, we just cannot get this working. We just can't do it. He said, every time we solve one of the corner edge cases, one of those unusual cases that no one thought about originally, he goes, we break 50 others. He goes, ‘we are losing the battle for perception in autonomous vehicles.’  

So he quit, and he now holds 18 patents. Now, get this, on a car that has no driver, but there are pilots that he trains, and it takes 50 hours. He trains people who sit in what is effectively a call center, and they control the car remotely. So they have cameras and sensors, but there's a human being actually controlling the car. And that pilot is now launched in Las Vegas and is spectacularly successful. So you can now order a car in Las Vegas, effectively an Uber without a driver. The car shows up, but it's actually being driven remotely by a human being. You get in the car and it will deliver you wherever you want to go, and you get out, and then it just drives to the next destination. 

And the reason I found that so interesting was that this is kind of I would call it an AI 0.5, which is he's using AI sensors, but he absolutely recognized that there had to be a human in the loop for this technology to become commercially viable. And I found that a really interesting evolution from someone who was a zealot, you know AI is going to take over the world, and came to the conclusion that we're a long way away from it happening. So I thought that was a slightly more optimistic view.  


Phil

Thank you, Peter, and on that, just before the call started today, Naoto and I were discussing the article that I put on Chat a couple of hours ago about Toyota and Pony.AI - which is Tencent - coming to an agreement on autonomous taxis. And that's major China, major Japan, so quite interesting. 

Jaymie, you have a question? 

Mr. Jaymie Durnan

No, just a couple of comments on Peter’s comment.

First of all, that any new technology, anything new, is always going to engender a lot of litigation. I mean, people are just going to sue, just to sue. 

As a lawyer, my recommendation, strong recommendation, is that if you feel that an AI engine has injured you, don't go to a fancy Wall Street lawyer, or New York lawyer, go to the best personal injury lawyer you can find. They are going to be at the forefront of these litigations. 

And the reason is because they sue everybody. They don't worry about who's ultimately guilty. They're worrying about making sure that their client gets compensated properly, and they get compensated properly because they get 40% of the take. So they will sue everybody and let everybody sort it out by going to court and saying, ‘well, I'm not involved.’ So I have no doubt that the bar is already figuring out how to make a lot of money on this.

On the simulation, which is what I call simulated driving that is in Las Vegas. Just a note of caution, machines are actually good at simulators, but when's the last time any of you got on one of the on a simulator, either a high-speed roadway race, or even some chase online.   It's a lot more difficult than you believe. There are some people that are quite good at it, but the human brain is still not structured to be able to take those kind of inputs of a sharp turn, and making that left or right, and making the decisions as quickly as we would hope it is. And especially if you're trying to do it in a simulator, because that's all this is - these people are sitting in these back rooms driving a simulator. And so I think that you've just added another arrow to the personal injury lawyer’s quiver. 

So with that, I'll stop. Thank you. 

Peter

One point, Jaymie. I completely agree with you. 

I will say, though, that if you've ever watched someone who's really good in a simulator, and it's a small group of people, they are extraordinary. So if you watch the F-1 drivers as an example, drive simulators, it's just staggering to watch them do that. 
But one thing I didn't make clear - the human driver in the simulator is being augmented by the AI sensors in the car. So when the left turn comes, the car is going to make its best approximation of the left turn, with the driver in the simulator correcting, to the degree it's necessary. So it's not that the car is 100% dependent on human interaction. It's really called - in our world, my world, we call it digital twinning. Digital twinning is when you take a human being and twin them with an AI or a system. So I just want to make it clear that it's a combination of AI and human performance that renders, I believe, renders these cars safer than just the human driver or just an AI driver. 

Jaymie

Thank you. And so, if I can just finish with one note of caution regarding one of the things that we're not paying attention to at this point - maybe Jerry or somebody can talk about it, but it's this notion that the AI algorithms that we are building today are getting much closer to being able to make up their own minds and create new algorithms on the fly. 

It's not something that we should be afraid of. We should just be cautious about trying to understand what those AI algorithms are creating. So, yes, in the Las Vegas situation, you're right. But at some point, the algorithms are going to start being able to make decisions, and make changes to the patterns, and we need to understand that. 

Phil

Jerry, you sent an article this morning from The Economist, and then I just saw your note here in the Chat. Would you like to add any thoughts? 

Mr. Jerry Hultin

You know, we've been discussing for a long time the differences between the East and the West. The greater individualism in the West, the more communal in the East. The Economists ran a piece today which I'll put up in the Signal Chat about a long term study that's been looking at attitudes - 130,000 people are in it now. And it started with the premise that as people rose from poverty, as we've gone from 40% extreme poverty in the U.S. let's say 1970 about 8% extreme poverty now.  The assumption was that that would lead to a preference for individualism, freedom, a sort of comfort with the quality of life and greater democracy. So that's a 70s assumption. 

The data hasn't come out that way. We're now with this 8% only extreme poverty, and yet in terms of attitudes, the preference for a more autocratic, more stable government society has stayed surprisingly high. So it sort of undermines this big - I would call it Western assumption - that the arc of history leads towards desiring, freedom, individualism, and that rising from poverty would increase, escaping poverty would increase the likelihood you would become more of this preference for individualism democracy, etc. 

So The Economist piece leaves it as a quandary, and as The Economist often does, its preferences for this more Western view of the world. So it says maybe it's just a longer process, a slower process to get to this point. But I think the article is worth reading and continues this debate about, overall what's best for humans on the earth?  The West has clearly, since the American Revolution, really emphasized individualism and freedom almost to its detriment now.  The East has been more comfortable with, as China shows us, a more communal state.  A pretty fundamental debate, and this data is just helpful to see what people are thinking out in the world. 

Phil

Thanks, Jerry. 

Sister Nilda, serving in the barrios of the Philippines, and in line with what Jerry and others have said, do you have any thoughts that you find appropriate to share?  Thank you.

Sister Nilda Castro

It's just that, really people need to be free to be able to act among those who are the poorest of the poor, probably. 

And the kind of activities that we do is, let's say we try to deal with the poor people in several ways. And one of the ways that we want to help them is to let them help themselves. I mean, we try to afford them education and formation in such a way that they do not just receive from those who are helping them, but they develop themselves and in the future are able to help others too. 

So I don't know how it's so far from what we were saying up to now, but I find it very interesting in the sense that maybe we do not say cancel out poverty right away, but we do see the hope that people will not only be conscious of wanting to improve themselves, but also that they know that if they improve themselves in the future, they can also help others. 

That is why the scholarships that we give, we give to children of families who are poor, and we also help the families. But at a certain point, the families themselves say, ‘no, we can support ourselves, you can give your scholarship to somebody else who needs it more.’ This is one thing that we do about our programs of poverty. 

And another program that we have is to sensitize those who are giving sponsorships or help to our poor. That they can help them more if they not only just give them dole outs, but that if they help them get that education that can make them, let's say, go to universities so that they develop themselves and are also able to, in the future, help also the country. This is part of it. 

Thank you.

Phil

Thank you. Sister Nilda.

Tyvin, you had some comment in the Chat related to a few of the other comments today. 

Dr. Tyvin Rich

Interest rates - I found that discussion very appropriate right now, but when I bought one of my first houses, we paid 12.5%.  We didn't die. We didn't go into an abyss. They're going to go up and down. But I'm not an economist. I'm not trying to sway the conversation in any way. But, hey, listen, that's the market. 

What concerns me is a discussion of what I hear so much in this forum about the ‘quarterly kind of mentality’ that I call as opposed to what Jaymie said, ‘maybe we should be thinking about what's going to happen 20 years from now.’

And one of the things I wrote about in a comment was at the current vision that we have about our food supplies and with the changes that we're seeing, with environmental conditions that are happening as we look out the window - we have to have biologic diversity. We have to have, I think, cultural diversity recognized as allowing those food supplies to emerge locally. But we're involved with a worldwide supply, which right now is undergoing new tensions and stresses. 

So I would say that's a very important thing that we have to look at, because who knows what this environment is going to do with regard to growing potatoes in Ireland, for instance - that happened a century ago, and with only one type, it created a famine.  It's going to be a catastrophic for some people.  And we have to, I think, be very prepared for allowing those interchanges along with the latest science, AI, data management workings for the development of a continued food supply for our human species. Otherwise we're going to be in trouble. 

I'll stop there. 

Phil

Thanks, Tyvin. 

Roberto, this certainly goes in line with some of the comments you've posted in the Chat. So would you like to continue? 

Dr. Roberto Alverez

I think this is not the best time.  I’m flying on an airplane.

Phil

I understand you'll just post in the chat. 

Tom Sato, we spoke to you. It was a good month ago or so, and you said you had some comments coming up related to infrastructure and AI. Would you like to make that or any other comments at this point? 


Mr. Tom SATO

I'm wondering if I could do a little survey. There's a reaction button at the bottom of your screen, and I wonder if you could raise your hands up if you feel it's really hot,.  Because in Japan, the heat wave is extraordinary. I mean, we're having huge heat waves in Japan, and I don't know whether everybody's around the world, and it's very hot. And one of the things I'm doing right now is to try to find climate tech companies who could solve this, which seemed to be very difficult. 

You see, AI great. It's a great tool you can use, and so on, and it may make our lives a little bit easier to do work, or may make people redundant because AI could replace them.  But I can't see it serving the climate crisis, which is happening now right up on my farm.  It's way too hot to work outside to do know. 

I think we should really focus our attention to what's happening to the climate and the planet Earth. I think the planet is pretty angry at human beings because of overpopulation, over industrialization. We are still burning fossil fuels without any kind of control, and this is really bad. I think if the population grows as is, if the economy grows as is, and if we are still going to grow as much as in terms of spending fossil fuels and whatever else we do to add to these climate crisis - I think we might have a situation in hand that somebody just mentioned that we should be thinking about what's going to happen to the planet in 20 years. But in 20 years, it's going to be stinking hot and that will have significant impact upon our livelihoods and economy and global trade, and so on. 

I think this heat wave is also making people rather unproductive or angry. 

I'm emailing out to my business folks in Tokyo, and they're not working really up to speed. Their response is slow, many of them are on vacation, and so on. When I look at things happening in Israel, which is also very hot, the political situation regarding the judiciary reform is making people very angry and everybody's protesting, and the heat wave is adding to that. So what I'm really worried about is not the AI - I can talk about the AI infrastructure in a couple weeks time, but when it's a little bit cooler.  But I think, it's August and right at the moment in Northern Hemisphere is very hot, and I think we should discuss about climate change. 

Back to you Phil. 

Phil

Thank you 

Tom, and look forward to the discussion on infrastructure in a couple of weeks. 

Zijian, I know you're in a holiday weekend in Singapore, but what Tom mentioned is right up your alley in the Ministry in Singapore. Would you like to offer some comment? 


Mr. KHOR Zijian

Hi Phil, thanks for calling me.  I think around the world we have been facing the El Nino conditions. So essentially it is a hot pace that is going on around the world.  And I think what Tom actually mentioned is very real - that heat waves are happening across the world. I think last year we also faced similar events, especially with the heat waves in Canada, and I think in the UK where they even warped some of the railway infrastructure, and I think the airplanes were also grounded last year during this period as well. 

As what Tom has shared as well, most of the climate technologies that we are kind of exploring right now I think is quite a general in terms of sensing wise. It is still very heavily skewed towards climate mitigation. So that means that it is reducing the amount of fossil fuels and emissions that we are pumping into the atmosphere. 

However, I think we've also shared before in these calls in the early days, one of the not quite right or the things which we really found weird is that in the next 10 to 20 years, with temperatures rising, we should be looking at heavy adaptation and really looking at adapting to this new climate that we are all living in. And that is, however, not where the research money in terms of government spending is moving towards. 

Even in Singapore, yes, we do pump in money into adapting towards the climate.  We do have looking at coastal protection to prevent high floods, as well as rising sea levels, and also urban heat adaptation. So really looking at the urban heat effect, but those are just part of it.  Most of the money is still actually being spent on climate mitigation efforts. 

So I guess as the climate worsens across probably the next few decades as well, and all these changes in the temperatures are really forcing people to adapt, hopefully the governments will take heed as well and focus a bit more on adapting rather than just reducing the amount of gases or GHG that goes into the atmosphere. 

I think that's all for me for now. Thank you. 

Phil

Thank you, Zijian.

Alvaro, you're having a weather-day yourself from flying, but would you care to reflect on some of the comments made today? 

D Alvaro de Orléans-Borbón

Well, first I note something that always strikes me. This is a group of highly intelligent people. Some of them have very diverging opinions. But here one principle that you never learn much from somebody you are in agreement with works very fine, because you are almost looking for disagreements in our meetings here in order to learn for alternative viewpoints. This shapes then personal philosophies.
I think most of us don't have an explicit one. I fought with this myself in the last ten years, and I can offer just a little of my thoughts, but with strong warning that this is just an idea how one can go about like this, but not that whatever I solved for myself is any good for anybody else. 

But I looked at ourselves from afar, and I see that the human species essentially has two characteristics if it's highly collaborative, like a wolf pack, and it is very cultural. In other words, it takes about 20 years to get one of our species a new persons on-stream and become productive. 

And once you look at this, then you look at how many of these collaborative systems degrade and become coercive. That means that somebody on the top of the pyramid starts telling convincingly everybody else what they should be doing and often with great bad results. I mean, the very good idea of communism, which is fundamentally of living together in a good way, etc, then become monsters when you execute them and see why, you try to understand why when it's wrong and you get millions of people killed and so on. 

And here I came to one conclusion that may be of interest to any of you, which is the individualism that was spoken earlier today in our conversation ‘why Western countries are so individualistic?’  I think it happens because they recognize the value of freedom. But I think that what is not so useful until today is most of the definitions of freedom.  Because freedom collisions immediately with idea - well, that means you can do anything to anybody, even kill him and take his wallet out of his dead body and go around.  No, of course not!  

But for me, after years, I came to a very strange, possibly useful definition. Freedom is an ecological condition for man's reason to work, because our human species is one peculiar detail differential that makes a difference to anybody other ones. Our survival mechanism, it's called reason. The ability in our brain to look at what our senses give us and come to conclusions and then act upon them. And the ability for our reasoning system to function has an ecological condition. In other words, an environmental condition. 

A positive environmental condition for our reason to work is called freedom. And once you think of this, the whole thing comes together because our collaborative species immediately, if you look at this from a reasoning viewpoint, stops the stupid argument that we're both prepared to eat each other, and just our educational veneer stops us from doing so or the risk of consequences because we break laws and so on.  No, I think this is wrong.  If we look from a reasoning viewpoint, our collaboration is highly self-reinforcing.  We look at a big advantage. I mean, they're all very stupid things.  If Phil knows how to do hats, and I know how to do butter, eventually we will exchange the hat of Phil with my butter. And it's good that we have diversity, we should protect it. And therefore our reason makes almost automatic the structure of a society that allows us to work. 

But again, my discovery, my personal discovery is that freedom is what I would call the ecological condition for our main survival mechanism, which is reason to function. And I have not yet found a way to negate this as the best definition for me. 

And here I stop. 

Phil

Thank you very much, appreciate it.
 
Al. Wilhelm, would you like to add any comments from what you're hearing today - I see you thinking quite a bit. 

Dr. Alfred Wilhelm

I'm afraid most of these guys are way over my head. I'm going to have to pass for the moment while I think about and digest what I'm hearing. Thanks a lot. 

Phil

No, I understand totally.

Nkem, if you could bring us up to date and also in line with the conversation of the many activities that we hear of going on in Africa right now. Thank you. 

Dr. Nkem Khumbah

First of all, greetings, friends and colleagues. 

The African situation that I've been reading hasn't changed so much since I reported last Saturday when at Jerry's place.

Louis started off his comments by mentioning Africa's or the Global South rejection of the Global North - the G-7, G-20 and the global agenda to control what happens in the globe. So there's plenty of chatter in African circles. 

First about the coup. Italy in West Africa. There are four of them now, and it's like a band of young military officers. One of them is 34 years old. He's a young guy and he seems to be one of the fire-brands. The oldest is 61. And, very clearly it's French-Africa rising up against France. Those are the battle lines.  And the other former French African colonies, there's a lot of tension in those countries now, and you begin to get a military reshuffle, there’s the expectation that many more countries would follow coup d’etat as I mentioned last week.  It reflects very long standing frustration against France. There's no mincing of words on that. 

The West might be led by Washington DC, but the immediate experience of these countries is with France directly.  Their rejection, they blame on their development across the board on France. They will make the global claim that much of the world of Global South was colonized. That's true. Some have done better. That's true. The U.S. was in Philippines and parts of the Pacific. The UK was in India and South Asia, part of Africa - Nigeria, Kenya.  So many countries, the global side was colonized. 

But how come the French African colonies are still in this developed of the world today?  Even though with all their resources and that's how they put the contrast of all the former colonies. The most pernicious colonial process was with the French in Africa. And that's what is holding the continent back. And there's a lot of cheering in Africa on the streets for these young folks. They recognize that they are starting a process. They are not just getting to power is not a thing. They recognize in their mind, in their pronouncements, in their comments and speeches, that they are starting a process - the next phase of African decolonization, if you want to say it that way.  It might be a tough road for them, but that's what they're looking at, and it is substantively emboldening. 

The BRICS countries, Brazil, for example, you, my colleagues here, I don't know how we might see media and news differently - the CNN folks, whichever we watch, and the books we read, classical Western stories. But the Global South aligns strongly with the Che Guevaras, with the Castros of Cuba, with those who reject in principle the Global North. And so these activities in Africa are coalescing. Those people from the Global South who are thinking structurally on how to find space to overcome the global structure that the Global North has pinned them onto as the only way to develop themselves. 

So the body lines are clear, and they're only evolving that there's something brewing in the Global South, and the BRICS countries are taking wind and advantage of this. I anticipate that at the end of this month, when the BRICS meet in South Africa, there will be some substantive pronouncements. How would they materialize? The action is a whole different thing. How they materialize is not very clear.  But there's a sense that the creation of a different currency that the BRICS countries can use, and the Global South that rejects the Dollar now as a controlling global mechanism can find room to. 

I mentioned earlier that there are at least 21 more countries now that are in line trying to join the BRICS. The BRICS collective already have more than collective GDP of the G-7. So if you have 20 countries, including Iran and Nigeria, Saudi Arabia and Argentina, it's not just what you call developing world. If they join and have that combined power, it would only lead to other considerations of collective security, collective economic growth, not only rejecting the North, but developing instruments and structures and institutions that would enable them now have a different deal for themselves, and not always depend on the structure that were created in the post World War II, post war, post Second World War. And these folks, they will not talk about World War One, World War II. They will talk about a 30 year European war to colonize them, to structure them. So the language now is changing substantively on how to rephrase the experience on global development over the last one Century. 

You see this even in the speeches of their leaders. When Russia had the summit with African heads of States in the last two weeks, it was amazing how much African heads of States, those who attended their delegations, they were pretty much begging, Russia come take over us. We're stuck here. We don't know what to do.  Pretty much really begging.  I mean, telling them that, giving them the experience of what they've gone through with the South, with the West, and saying, come help us do what we have to do.  Even Libya was telling Russia, come help us get rid of Western forces in our land.  The Libyan leader said that. And the trouble in West Africa for the most part, was caused by the destruction of Libya that made weapons and banditry and terrorism just rampant in West Africa. The loss of security structures and institutions, everyone just went on their own. And that West Africa left to deal with the aftermath by themselves, without any support. 

So Africa is at the verge of a different era.  In English speaking Africa - actually, let me back up for a second.  Even in Senegal, Senegal is supposed to be, quote unquote, a stable country. The President who is there now, he was actually forced not to change the constitution, but he was trying to change his stay longer. The French were trying to make him to stay. I mean, when I say this language, I don't mean the French citizens - these are matters of State. These are policies of a country, not so much the individual colleagues and friends that we socialize with, but the policies of the State. They wanted the guy to stay longer.  There was an uprising completely against it. He couldn't do that. So the English speaking countries in Africa, they too are going through their own changes. There's a wave of younger leaders coming up, those who were born post 1945, who were born post the Korean War period after 1960.  They are less attached.  I think, imagining a ‘JFK’ appearing in an African country discontented with what is happening.  

Better informed with broad media. It's difficult to hide information as is hidden. You should say that you want to hide information, hide it in books. Not everybody reads books. But nowadays social media and some is fixed through, but it's hard to hide information. So the general populace is better informed and they are rejecting the norm much, much more. 

So look out. Africa is going through some internal processes to reassert itself, to come a little bit more of age. And they are finding that the way to do that is to pivot to the East. They have no experience with the East on these kind of things. 

Things like technology are not so much on African agendas partly because their priority, as Jerry mentioned idea earlier, their immediate priority is food on the table. It's lifespan, life expectancy, it's quality of life. And they don't see science yet as a big deal. Even though, as I mentioned last time in my personal experiences, even their efforts to develop scientific system, to do all what we do here, developing tools to change their material environment.  Those things are very clear. 

I give you one example. I once had a chat, a conversation with the President of the Senegal Academy of Science, that was around 2012 and he told me his experience as they were trying to establish a university of standard technology.  Just a university.  Post independence, many African countries focus much, much of their work supported by the World Bank or oriented by the World Bank to do humanities, history, humanities, governance, because they were taking over governance structures from retreating colonialists.  So science wasn't a big thing on the agenda. But then they wanted to develop some over time from 80s and 90s, nthe there are lots of documents and commissions on that.  They wanted to develop a university on science and technology. It took him 20 years - 20 years just to do that because the French Minister of Cooperation wouldn't let him do it. That's it. They wouldn't let them say you have a business doing this, you have other things that are prowess in terror. 

So this frustration is really causing a new revolt in Africa. They want to reclaim their resources, they want to process them before selling them.   I had a comment from a Uganda President. Unprocessed coffee cost $2.50 on the market. Finished goods, chocolate and all the derivatives. $40.  $40 from $2.50. And that's how much Africa loses from not being able to process its own goods annually. Not only coffee, the agricultural products, all the natural resources under their soil, they don't process any. And so the gains of the Global North from keeping them Africa from processing their goods is over ten-fold. And that's what the young people are revolting against.

Now, what does it mean to want to do your own process your own goods before sending them outside for consumption? It means infrastructure. It means the technical know how, agri-processing, you name it. How do they develop that? I'm not very sure yet how long it would take for them to be able to develop their own ecosystems. It's part of what some of us do. Science as a pathway to development. 

But this August, if I may say this, we are looking at big changes that will embolden the radical folks coming out of the continent. One of them who would really push that is not even China and Russia.  Russia is poking at the West.  They're trying to people away. But. Brazil. Roberto is here. Brazil is 210,000,000 people. 210,000,000 population.  110 million is of African descent. Afro-Brazilian, like African-Americans in the U.S.  Descendants of slaves, more than half the population. And so the Brazilian President is very bullish on Africa and what he's doing to South America. Trying to convene the community of the South of the South to repeal the ‘Monroe Doctrine.’  He's trying to do the same thing in Africa. And so he's pushing a very strong agenda to support African countries to find room to give for themselves a better bargain. 

So what does it all mean in the short term?  It's not very clear. There might be more turmoil on the continent before we see progress because this is against some very strong headwinds that they are facing. But maybe eventually I will share a few of the comments, if that's of interest, on our Chat groups from African leaders, so you can hear exactly what they are saying from their own mouth, especially the coup d’etat leaders. I suspect in the next five to ten years, France will not be what it used to be in Africa. 

President Macron has tried to activate a discussion for a new compact with African countries. But that's not being accepted by Africa. It's very palliative. It's not deep enough for Africa to accept, at least for these leaders to accept. They want a complete break away from France. And they believe that because many of them didn't get their independence on the barrel of the gun, the way the U.S. got its own from Britain. The way anyone who gets independent has to fight and actually have some, umbilical, severance from the master country. They didn't get that. And many of them are asking that's what they need. Complete use the gun, and cut off completely at the umbilical level from France. Whether it's considered or not, I don't know, but these are the raves that are going on. 

So Africa is going through the next phase of decolonization. And what you're seeing as school adults are just the early shots. Now, technology, banking, I heard of the U.S. economy and the dominance of the Dollar and its fluctuating rates mean for the Global South. That's exactly why they want a different currency. That's why the BRICS are saying that for all its value, that provided what the West will cause stability. The stability that the West called decisions have provided global peace. We haven't seen enough another world war. It was 1914. Within 20 years, 1940, there was another war. Now it's been over 70 years. We haven't seen another world war. Well, the West might really say there's been stability, there's been order. It's an order that puts them at the top and everyone is at the bottom. And the bottom is saying, ‘no, we don't want that order anymore.’ The order is your order, not our order. To maintain an order, that is not the order that we want. And they are finding means the courage now to say otherwise, we don't want it anymore. 

So I will keep watching the African scene and comment as you wish. 

Phil

Thanks, Nkem. And a couple of weeks, we look forward to hearing from you from Nairobi. So we look forward to that. 

Dmitry, if you could bring us up to date and speed, also reflect on the things said today.  We hear of course, about drone conflicts going on, and you're right in the middle of the city.  So if you could just reflect a little bit, I think we'd all be interested. Thank you. 

Mr. Dmitry Traevich

Hello, dear colleagues. 

Yeah, actually, this week we had several attacks, these drone attacks, which didn't bring any dramatic distractions. But anyway, it has really really serious impact on people here and on people in the world, I would say.  And of course, it has only one purpose, just ‘to show that they also can do something, they also can fight. And that's probably it is not safe anymore in Moscow.’  I mean, this is the message they would like to provide for Russians, this is the idea. And of course, the last attacks on ships in the Black Sea, of course it would put this grain deal into the risk. So it means that probably we will see more and more escalation this year. 

And talking about AI, it was a really interesting discussion. And I started to understand if in Russia - if we have some deep projects as Chat GPT or Google AI developments or something. And of course, I couldn't find any deep projects which we can compare with the Western variants. 

But anyway, I just found that in Russia we have plenty of projects, small projects, but for some specific practical spheres. For example, I found information that we have, I don't know, several thousands of projects in the medical sphere with AI products which can help to analyze some X-ray exams, images or MRI images or so on. And even this Friday I received a message, it was a broadcast email for our company (SUEK) that my colleague won some contest.  It was an AI contest, and he invented some product to analyze x-ray and MRI images. So it means that you can see it more and more around you.  Despite we cannot say that there are some really famous internationally-recognized Russian products.

Also an interesting fact, talking about driverless cars in SUEK, in my company we have a project with a 100% percent automated dump truck. It is a really big machine, like 220 tons, which could operate without any personal interference. It's really interesting project. 

Talking about Yandex, of course, you know, is a Russian IT company which is called Yandex, and it has a really big project in a sphere of humanless taxi.  So, we have these big projects. We even have an area in Moscow where you can use driverless taxi just for about one Dollar per ride. Right now, this is the price because they need to get the system built, and they have to collect a lot of data until they implement this system. 

And also talking about different transport systems, we use AI to manage traffic in the city, in the metal industry and also the chemical industry. And I also visited one year ago, I visited our production plant in Antwerp, Belgium, and they used AI to do some chemical exams for these samples. 

Talking about data, we have Sber, which is let's say the former Sberbank and right now it's fintech, global fintech Russian company.  VK, which is a social media company and Yandex have started thinking about that.  Probably, of course, it is really important who invent our technology, but probably it is more important to have people who are able to implement this technology in your production, in your fintech sphere, and so on. 

And second, thinking about Russia, I would say that probably we have some really good steps on this long, long path. And also some interesting fact - talking about education. In the last two or three years, if you watch some video on YouTube, on YouTube, I don't know, probably half of advertisements, it would be about education in this area. It means that we can see that it's rising really substantially. 

And also I found these, but of course I don't know where they from, so we have to double check. But anyway, talking about some average numbers or expectations - like United Arab Emirates, they expect to have 13% contribution from AI skill as part of the GDP by 2030.   I don't know if it is an accurate number or not. China even more like more than 20%.  It sounds a little bit strange. But anyway, in Russia we have a strategy in this AI development sphere. And Russia expects to have like 2 to 5% contribution into GDP from this AI sphere.  I think it looks more or less feasible. 

I guess that's it from my side. Thank you so much. 

Phil

Thank you, Dimitry. Very comprehensive. Appreciate it a lot. 

Fang Yi, I think you're getting ready to head back to Illinois, and just listening to the conversation this morning, if you'd like to share some thoughts regarding what you've been considering over the summer, and now as you get ready to go back to the university. 

Mr. Fang Yi LIN

Yeah. Thanks, Phil. 

So the real interesting developments I've been seeing so far is kind what I guess I've kind of maybe touched on a little bit in the past, which was there's kind of a real congregation, there's a real centralization of power when it comes to the big players in artificial intelligence. Sam Altman just launched his Frontier Models Forum. Most of the revolutionary changes and most of the money that we see being poured into AI these days are going to large language models. And that Frontier Forum is kind of like basically a coalition of people kind of deciding what large language models and AI in the future should look like. 

Other than that, I think primarily I've been seeing a lot of investment regionally in Southeast Asia going into education and people using some form of generative artificial intelligence to supplement education.  So I think we're going to see a really big change, and a really big shift in that particular area soon, especially since that area is so ripe for disruption. 

But other than that, I don't really have anything else to comment. Thanks, Phil. 

Phil

Thank you. And I think when do you leave?  The 18th? 

Fang Yi

I'll be flying back on the 16th in the early morning. 

Phil

Well, wishing you well as you wrap up things in Singapore and head back safely and smoothly. 

Max Yamamoto, you made an interesting comment last week about various movies, specifically Barbie and Oppenheimer. If you'd like to expand on any comments, and any thoughts from today, we'd appreciate it. Thank you. 

Mr. Max Yamamoto

Thank you. Hopefully, I think I'm in the heat stroke right now, so I can't kind of talk too much.

But yes, there is something with Barbie.  So after that, the Warner Brothers apologized about the comment and everything, and we thought everything went all right. Then the director of the movie Barbie came to Japan, and it looks like they saw the U.S. Ambassador.  And the U.S. Ambassador made a comment and said, ‘Barbie is all these women, and all these women are Barbie.’  And this comment backfired again.  And yes, I don't know where this Barbie problem is going in Japan.   Anyway, that’s what happened after with the ‘Barbenheimer’ things during the week.

Thank you. 


Phil

Thanks a lot, Max.

Admiral Koda, I don't think we'd ever imagined that we would be considering a Barbie problem in Japan. But if you'd like to reflect overall on comments today, we'd appreciate the first. 

Admiral Yoji KODA

Barbie the first - one thing we have to always remember is in Japan, there are still pretty strong, I'd say negative view over the nuclear weapons or atomic bombs still exist. So we have to be careful. And in the past, many prominent Japanese political leaders lost their seat because of, I'd say lack of attention on this subject. So of the this time I think that the movie itself both Oppenheimer and think Barbie in Japan I think will be in a good shape in terms of the sales or popularity.  Of course this has nothing to do with the story itself, but how the SMS or social media use those two movies as a kind of, I'd say personal objectives. 

While listening to today's very good conversation, I always thinking.  I have two quick comments. One is the climate change. They say now it's no more the earth warming.  The Secretary General of the United Nations says it's earth boiling, perhaps. 

So that I as a sailor always think more about the military application or influence or impact over the military operations. So really the earth warming, especially the warming of the sea temperature, seawater temperature would change the well-established western navy's advantage in underwater warfare. 

Our current underwater warfare tactics are based upon the data that had been accumulated since 1914, to perhaps I'd say the mid 1990s based on the pre earth-warming data.  All for example, the prediction of the detection range or other environmental application of the acoustic systems are based on those old systems. But most likely, based on my experience one or two degrees change of the sea water temperature would really make those treasured data accumulated during the last 80 to 90 years period worthless, or I'd say less important. 

So that means the western Navies have to do a lot of efforts, new efforts or reset our environmental assessment over the ocean environmental data, for the example anti-submarine warfare or underwater dominance. So that is one of my concerns. 

I'm not saying this is happening, or already happening, or this really changed in overnight. But still we are at the verge of the kind of the critical point, and similarly the quick rise of the atmospheric temperature also impacts the performance of the missiles and also the fighters. So those are one thing we have to be careful, and this is not well much discussed because this is not today's because this conversation arena is not the place to discuss such a things. But for everybody just pay small attention that in environmental change has a lot of impact over the military operations. 

And one more. The militaries are getting serious about the use of the fossil fuel energies, and we are trying to find out the best ways to replace the overwhelming use of the fossil fuel to the green oil or green fuels - if that is the equivalent equal energy they can provide. So that is another, not well attracted the race between among advanced the military nations. 

The second thing let me go with the quick - the AI for the military application, we have been discussing a lot about the AI and the ordinary social lives or the people's lives or economies. But also AI has a great application for the military use.  For example, again, the anti-submarine warfare. But really, trying to find the signal emitted by submarine in the wide ocean is the very very difficult thing.  And we need very experienced, highly experienced, talented sonarmen or acoustic experts. That is, to find one tiny, tiny change of signals among 48 to 72 hours search, one chance, one signal based on his eyes to find out the change of the minor lines.  

Phil

I think we just lost Admiral Koda.  We just lost you briefly. Go ahead, please. 

Admiral KODA

Yeah, perhaps the cyber attack by North Korea!

But I think if we develop the right algorithm for those purposes, not simply only on the tactical side, but also the strategic side, the application of AI, or right application of AI will be really the big game-changer for the future of he military operations, and also the strategic planning. 

Thank you very much. 

Phil

Thanks a lot. 

Today, we have people traveling around, but let me just ask Naoto for a closing comment today. Naoto is calling us from Australia, but he's heading back to Japan on Monday.  I believe, so he hasn't been experiencing the global warming.  But anyways, Naoto, just maybe offer some closing comment based on the overall comments, and what you're thinking. Thanks. 

Mr. Naoto HAMADA

I've been thinking while visiting Australia this week.

It's probably going to be our custom of summer because I don't think it's Tokyo is livable!  It reached 40 today.  A lot of people is having a problem even going outside. And that probably going to be a thing in all of our places.  And Australia is nice and peaceful. Everybody nice. Every culture is here and blending. They are trying to respect each other, and thinking about what we're doing in East Asia. 

We just have to find a way to respect each other somehow. Their way of the things is different. The thinking process, and timing is different, duration is different. We just have to rhyme with each other more eagerly. And that's I was thinking here, everybody welcoming here as an Asian tourist - they're so nice.  It makes me wonder what's going on around the world.  Hopefully we have a time to ‘smell the roses,’ sit back and drink some water.

I hope everybody have a nice August, and see you next week. Thank you. That's my comment. 

Phil

Thanks very much, Naoto.

Have a safe and smooth trip home in the coming week.  To all, thank you for the wonderful overall exchange of thoughts today, that I think we all appreciate. 

Have a great week, everybody, and see you next week. Thank you. 





Zoom chat notes:

08:06:55 From Jaymie Durnan to Everyone:
	@louis:  can you speculate about the implications over the next 10-20 years?  What trends could we be paying attention to?

08:19:11 From Jerry Hultin to Everyone:
	@ Louis —  In the US, interest rate hikes hit the poor/low income more because poor/low-income homeowners seem to prefer adjustable mortgages (for the teaser front-end low rates).  The well-off have fixed rate mortgages, so the impact of interest rates will be less on the well-off (mainly less inclined to sell their home, but instead will hold and keep their fixed rate mortgages).  This may increase the impact on the political outcomes as the poor/low income are angry and the well-off are more content with interest rate hikes.

08:19:24 From tyvin rich to Everyone:
	One of the first houses I bought in 1982 was 12.5 %.  I survived as did the world.  Conclude what you like.

08:19:31 From Roberto Alvarez to Everyone:
	Technology growth is deflationary. BUT — economies cannot withstand deflation (what happens with debt when we have deflation?).

08:20:30 From Alvaro to Everyone:
	Reacted to "@ Louis —  In the US..." with 👍

08:21:19 From Roberto Alvarez to Everyone:
	And — the lifespan of companies is going down and down. Companies in the S&P 500 used to be 60 years old in 1960, but it is now down to 20 or less.

08:21:50 From alton to Everyone:
	Replying to "And — the lifespan o..."
	
	Interesting

08:25:18 From Louis Curran to Everyone:
	Reacted to "@ Louis —  In the US..." with ☘️

08:25:36 From Louis Curran to Everyone:
	Reacted to "One of the first hou..." with 👍

08:26:19 From Roberto Alvarez to Everyone:
	Aren’t we all in a simulation?? As Musk said….

08:29:56 From tyvin rich to Everyone:
	As for JD’s comment, I think that long range plans for our space ship should include food supply in the background of the climate change we are experiencing under our feet.  Maybe we have to slow down thinking in the terms of the “quarterly” mindset.

08:30:25 From Alvaro to Everyone:
	Reacted to "As for JD’s comment,..." with 👏

08:32:07 From Roberto Alvarez to Everyone:
	How do people think (perceive) their lives around the globe?? Here is one of my favorite metrics: https://www.gallup.com/394505/indicator-life-evaluation-index.aspx

08:34:10 From Roberto Alvarez to Everyone:
	@Jerry… think about the Maslow Pyramid… My take is that people want first to be free from hunger and fear. Then come the other things…

08:36:05 From alton to Everyone:
	Reacted to "@Jerry… think about ..." with 👍

08:38:57 From alton to Everyone:
	Not hot in central Virginia US

08:41:35 From tyvin rich to Everyone:
	Yes, not hot here now.

08:41:59 From alton to Everyone:
	Jesper posted a very interesting article on Eastern pollution vs historic pollution by the West. Many things I had heard from Chinese when I lived in Beijing in the mid 1980's.

08:44:33 From Jerry Hultin to Everyone:
	This is also posted in Signal chat group: https://www.economist.com/interactive/international/2023/08/03/western-values-are-steadily-diverging-from-the-rest-of-the-world

08:47:15 From Roberto Alvarez to Everyone:
	On adaptation… the revolving question in my mind is how will Europe adapt to massive migration inflows? Think (i) population growth in Africa and (ii) people being displaced because of climate change, (iii) looking for economic opportunities and moving North.

08:47:58 From Nkem Khumbah (ADFG) to Everyone:
	Reacted to "@ Louis —  In the US..." with 👍🏿

08:48:18 From Roberto Alvarez to Everyone:
	This is a great definition @Alvaro, loved it.

08:50:34 From alton to Everyone:
	The problem is humans have lower and higher drives. And the lower drives are hard to overcome.

08:50:42 From Khor Zijian to Everyone:
	to add, as the world heats up, there will need to be balance.. while tropical areas get warmer and wetter, climate across the latitudes towards the north and south will change. There will be winners and losers in this new climate equilibrium with a global displacement of people, food, energy and water.

08:50:57 From Roberto Alvarez to Everyone:
	Reacted to "to add, as the world..." with 👍

08:51:15 From Jaymie Durnan to Everyone:
	Replying to "This is a great defi..."
	
	agree

08:51:20 From Roberto Alvarez to Everyone:
	The effects on crop yields will (can) be massive.

08:51:24 From alton to Everyone:
	Reacted to "to add, as the world..." with 👍

08:51:26 From Tom Sato to Everyone:
	Reacted to "to add, as the world..." with 👍

08:51:36 From Roberto Alvarez to Everyone:
	Siberia will become a great place to cultivate crops.

08:52:12 From Roberto Alvarez to Everyone:
	Africa and Latam are projected to be the big loser in terms of food production.

08:52:27 From Khor Zijian to Everyone:
	Replying to "Siberia will become ..." 
	
	 We  may also need to move our global seed vault, its been melting in the previous years.

08:52:28 From Jerry Hultin to Everyone:
	Reacted to "to add, as the world..." with 👍

08:52:41 From Roberto Alvarez to Everyone:
	Reacted to "We  may also need to..." with 🎯

08:52:42 From alton to Everyone:
	Replying to "Siberia will become ..."
	
	Could that be a motive for the West to "conquer" Russia?

08:53:08 From tyvin rich to Everyone:
	Maybe we should look forward to that ’39 cabernet from the North.

08:53:19 From Jerry Hultin to Everyone:
	Replying to "This is a great defi..."
	
	Agree, too
08:58:49 From Khor Zijian to Everyone:
	Replying to "The effects on crop ..." 
	
	 Current agriculture producing countries will shift. Mediterranean weather becomes more tropical, while up north thaws.. this brings more questions of long kept in ice type of diseases and viruses that will be let loose. Not sure about Siberia as the ground is filled with biogas that is being emitted due to warmer weathers.
	
	Unfortunately, Russia was being heavily sidelined at the last IPCC report publication, due to the Ukraine conflict. Their scientists were basically ignored even though some of the science was being challenged. It was unfortunate to see a science based report become politically charged.

08:59:10 From Khor Zijian to Everyone:
	Reacted to "Maybe we should look..." with 😅

09:01:43 From AL Wilhelm to Everyone:
	China has a set of AI guidelines that the world has seen.  Does anyone have any insights into the internal debate and the data upon which this new set of regulations is based?  The logic behind these rules is not transparent.

09:02:56 From Khor Zijian to Everyone:
	One thing which puzzled me is the exclusions of the military in the climate fight. Even though the military uses lots of fossil fuels, there's no sign of reduction or accounting for it at the global level

09:06:16 From Roberto Alvarez to Everyone:
	Replying to "One thing which puzz..."
	
	https://www.defense.gov/spotlights/tackling-the-climate-crisis/

09:07:59 From Roberto Alvarez to Everyone:
	Replying to "The effects on crop ..."
	
	@Khor Zijian LatAm produces a lot of food (my country, particularly) and yells of various crops are forecasted to go really down in various scenarios. That will impact global and local economies.

09:08:06 From Alvaro to Everyone:
	Very important thoughts by Nkem...  every migrant that manages to reach Europe is a person with initiative that has left his original community... one less potential entrepreneur helping to bridge the enormous value chain that is mostly being realized outside of Africa, as Nkem explained. Sometimes I begin to think that accepting these migrants is doing great harm to the African communities.

09:08:19 From Jerry Hultin to Everyone:
	@Khor Zijian There has been some movement in the US military — the former secretary of the navy under Obama promoted transition to bio-fuels; Biden admin pursuing this more: see this article: https://www.politico.com/news/2021/03/31/electric-vehicles-biofuel-pentagon-biden-478764

09:08:21 From Roberto Alvarez to Everyone:
	Reacted to "Very important thoug..." with 🎯

09:08:39 From Roberto Alvarez to Everyone:
	Reacted to "@Khor Zijian There h..." with 👍

09:09:01 From Roberto Alvarez to Everyone:
	On Nkem’s comments: Brazil is the largest African country outside of Africa.

09:09:02 From Louis Curran to Everyone:
	Reacted to "Very important thoug..." with 👊

09:09:39 From Louis Curran to Everyone:
	Reacted to "On Nkem’s comments: ..." with 👏

09:09:43 From Khor Zijian to Everyone:
	Replying to "One thing which puzz..." 
	
	 Thanks, but their sector is still not being accounted for at IPCC/ UNFCCC reporting

09:10:54 From Khor Zijian to Everyone:
	Replying to "The effects on crop ..." 
	
	 Yes. Hence food security is a very important area to study, and securing supply chains. Singapore ships frozen chickens from Brazil!

09:10:59 From Roberto Alvarez to Everyone:
	And — many technologies applicable to food production on BR can very easily be taken to Africa, as LatAm and Africa have some very similar climate zones.

09:11:24 From Roberto Alvarez to Everyone:
	Reacted to "Yes. Hence food secu..." with 🎯

09:11:41 From Khor Zijian to Everyone:
	Reacted to "@Khor Zijian There h..." with 👍

09:11:53 From Roberto Alvarez to Everyone:
	Replying to "The effects on crop ..."
	
	There are too many mouths to feed in the globe… and, again, this is a the bottom of the pyramid (food security).
09:12:15 From Khor Zijian to Everyone:
	Reacted to "Yes. Hence food secu..." with 🎯

09:12:17 From Khor Zijian to Everyone:
	Removed a 🎯 reaction from "Yes. Hence food secu..."

09:12:28 From Roberto Alvarez to Everyone:
	Replying to "The effects on crop ..."
	
	at….

09:13:16 From AL Wilhelm to Everyone:
	China appears to have a more aggressive  approach to climate change that seems to be attracting interest from among many in Africa, Mid-East and Latin America.  Green mountains and clear waters appears to be having an impact as  is maybe heavy investment in green energy.

09:14:27 From Louis Curran to Everyone:
	I think @dmitry point about the drone attack in Moscow and the missile attack on the Russian NAval fleet would not have ha[[ened were it not for US military technology. The ability by Ukraine to strike at the heart of Russian Miliatary strength and at its capital city might reflect a turning of the tide which prompts Russia to escalate. At the Ukraine peace conference, which china attended. Russia has not. The encroachment and tilting of the scales in Ukraines favour using technology risks an escalation we need to think about

09:14:33 From Nilda Castro to Everyone:
	The migration question is quite complex. From the point of view of the migrant, migration is an opportunity. (What happens during the process of migrating is another question.) From the point of view of the country of origin, when migration selects the better prepared citizens, it could be harmful. For the country of arrival, they could be a resource in different ways. Who gets the priority in evaluating the phenomenon?

09:15:16 From Roberto Alvarez to Everyone:
	Reacted to "The migration questi..." with 🎯

09:16:00 From alton to Everyone:
	Replying to "Very important thoug..."
	
	Brain drain was a big complaint from Deng Xiaoping era China. The US responded by extremely limiting Chinese student immigration. That caused a panic rush to the US embassy to get out, while a simultaneous protest over Hu Yaobang's suspicious death in Tiananmen Sq was taking plalce. The confluence of those events resulted in the Democracy Protest that led to the Tiananmen Sq massacre.

09:17:39 From AL Wilhelm to Everyone:
	Reacted to "On Nkem’s comments: ..." with 👍

09:18:18 From Roberto Alvarez to Everyone:
	Replying to "Very important thoug..."
	
	@alton It is a big issue for Africa. Right @Nkem?

09:20:20 From Roberto Alvarez to Everyone:
	Replying to "Very important thoug..."
	
	LatAm too, to some extent. Brain drain is an effect of asymmetries. Where are the opportunities in the world? It disproportionally affects the most capable and well-trained in/from emerging countries.

09:20:56 From Roberto Alvarez to Everyone:
	Replying to "Very important thoug..."
	
	But is has a positive side too. Isolation certainly is not the way.

09:21:48 From Nilda Castro to Everyone:
	Probably the world community should start thinking seriously about seriously helping the migrants' countries of origin develop so that people do not have to migrate to survive or to get better opportunities?

09:22:02 From Roberto Alvarez to Everyone:
	Reacted to "Probably the world c..." with 🎯

09:22:13 From Roberto Alvarez to Everyone:
	Replying to "Probably the world c..."
	
	Bingo. The question is how.

09:22:22 From Alvaro to Everyone:
	Reacted to "Probably the world c..." with 👍

09:22:28 From Khor Zijian to Everyone:
	To add on to what tom was saying - Korea is also facing heat issues, impacting the scouts jamboree....
	
	https://www.channelnewsasia.com/asia/south-korea-world-scout-jamboree-heatwave-singapore-3679336

09:22:35 From alton to Everyone:
	Replying to "Very important thoug..."
	
	China ended up using the drive of students to get out as a means of extracting resources from the US.

09:23:07 From Jerry Hultin to Everyone:
	Reacted to "Probably the world c..." with 👍🏼

09:23:29 From Roberto Alvarez to Everyone:
	Reacted to "China ended up using..." with 👍

09:24:30 From Roberto Alvarez to Everyone:
	Replying to "Very important thoug..."
	
	And diasporas can be powerful. I once created a “Brazil Diaspora Network’ with the idea to hep advance innovation in BR.

09:24:55 From alton to Everyone:
	Reacted to "And diasporas can be..." with 👍

09:25:06 From Nilda Castro to Everyone:
	Replying to "Probably the world c..."
	
	If there is serious intention to do so, ways could be worked out.  Countries can be urged to dialogue seriously? Also NGOs work! Etc.

09:25:07 From AL Wilhelm to Everyone:
	Replying to "The migration questi..."
	
	Europe, the US and china have taken very different approaches  China mos recently expelled a significant number of 3d world peoples further decreasing

09:25:09 From Khor Zijian to Everyone:
	Adm koda is spot on. Aside from naval warfare, climate change has also affected  peacetime training and soldier health. Heat stress is becoming more common and aborted training sessions due to heat.

09:25:16 From Roberto Alvarez to Everyone:
	Landed!

09:25:27 From Roberto Alvarez to Everyone:
	It was a great flight with you guys!!

09:25:55 From Jerry Hultin to Everyone:
	Reacted to "Bingo. The question ..." with 👍🏼

09:26:02 From Phil Midland to Everyone:
	Amazing that you were able to stay connected Roberto - - !

09:26:15 From alton to Everyone:
	For combatting climate change, are solar and wind viable solutions? The data doesn't support it., so far as I can discern.

09:26:18 From Roberto Alvarez to Everyone:
	Technology is amazing @Phil!!!

09:26:38 From Nkem Khumbah (ADFG) to Everyone:
	Reacted to "Landed!" with 👍🏿

09:27:37 From AL Wilhelm to Everyone:
	Replying to "The migration questi..."
	
	china's limited availability as a desired target of immigration.  Europe on the forefront has already discouraged many from opening their doors , not to mention the US experience with its southern borders.

09:28:03 From Khor Zijian to Everyone:
	Replying to "For combatting clima..." 
	
	 For now, intermittency and the carbon intensive manufacturing process is still a problem

09:29:12 From Roberto Alvarez to Everyone:
	Replying to "For combatting clima..."
	
	@Khor Zijian Storage is the key + nuclear!

09:29:31 From alton to Everyone:
	Reacted to "@Khor Zijian Storage..." with 👍

09:29:39 From Khor Zijian to Everyone:
	Reacted to "@Khor Zijian Storage..." with 👍

09:29:50 From Alvaro to Everyone:
	Reacted to "@Khor Zijian Storage..." with 👍

09:29:56 From Khor Zijian to Everyone:
	Replying to "For combatting clima..." 
	
	 Once fusion becomes stable!

09:30:34 From Roberto Alvarez to Everyone:
	Replying to "For combatting clima..."
	
	@Khor Zijian Not just fusion, but also new fission plants, compact ones, etc.