A: 

Organizing this expo announcement that nobody declaring submitting the construction. So we may not see the construction done by the time of the opening. So due to the lack of the people working, we have to really import a lot of people in this country to make the construction. Everything going smooth. Kim I mean, most people around the world, especially in America, they don't even know what the DRC is. I don't think they would know where to point to it on the map. Actually, the thing of DRC, they may not know the word DRC. They know the word Congo. Right. And lumumba. Right? And minerals and the minerals and poverty and wars and all of that. And CIA, those kind of words come in different combinations. When they want to hear Congo, they may not understand that things are happening there that might affect global dynamics, their population growth. King SHASA is going to be about 40. I can share the numbers here. One of the most popular cities in one generation in the world. Just numbers. I didn't prepare slides. I could have prepared about four or three slides to share on what it means on the continent in terms of demographics. That's Africa's only weapon now, the population weapon, just for just buying time. Well, it's not just a weapon, it's a reality, you know, and I mean and the Chinese and the Russians are like in the DRC are very yes, yes. Again, the new realities with NATO and the west versus Russia is activating a whole different geopolitical dynamic where Russia now is finding the need to find more partners and regain some space on the global chessboard. And so they are reaching out to Africa substantively. When I think you mentioned, or somebody did several months ago, several months ago, you or somebody mentioned the growing posture of the Russian church in Africa. And there was an article actually, I saw just last week on that exact point. It's just very interesting. I think it's growing through the Ethiopian church like everyone else, like all the other big powers, when they want to go down south, they go with all their tools, soft and hard. To china came in with both infrastructure money and it came with the competitive centers for cultural influence. They know Africa is the ultimate playground. Will you be going to Africa for anything in the next couple of months? Yes. That's why I wanted to update oh, okay. You can talk later on that. To yeah, I wanted to ask you, Kim, about the Wagner. Somebody was talking about actually the local security or the town security, the country security, whatever, is just really rely on those external force of the Russians. What happens after these guys? Are you guys expecting and having a security problem down? We don't as long as Russia has control over the Wagner and it's a tool for them, they'll see what they have to do. So Wagner is not an independent force. It's a proxy for Russia. And as long as Russia has the ambitions and control and can calm down matters with Wagner and all these other forces around, they will maintain it. The discussion of Wagner is coming up only because it's Russia. The CIA has been there forever. The British have their own veterinary forces. Everyone has their own. Well, there's about 20 private Chinese security companies in Africa. Exactly. And no one even thinks about that coming up because of this Russia issue. Otherwise you wouldn't even hear about it almost, I don't know, feelis of the military establishment if Africa complains about coup. American Miss Nerds, another insecurity yeah, go ahead. Sorry, I was going to say that Africans themselves, if they feel insecure, hands of the west, not in the hands of the rest of the others, if they feel insecure in their cities, in their governance, it's in the hands of the west. That's why you have some countries sending out UN forces, sending out French forces, sending out Western forces. They don't want them anymore. So after they will welcome Wong now before they welcome any other military. Well, another issue I wanted to ask for the water supply. Yeah, water supply on the continent. It's a matter of infrastructure, not water availability. It's infrastructure for distribution. I've always mentioned that technology and human capital is what's missing. There have abundant water, reverse dams, they have abundant supply. But infrastructure for getting it to urban city and urban planning, you have small cities here. You have Tokyo, you have Jarhi, you have New York. Big cities. What happens there is that there's a good infrastructure system for water to get to the destination in the homes of people. So in the continent, there's lots of water. But the technical infrastructure, pipelines, maintenance, governance to get it from the source to the consumer, it's where the difficulty comes in planning. And it's a big issue on urbanization. As I was saying that the bigger cities of the future are in Africa. So how do you get water to these big cities? If Lagos becomes 80 million people, one city, how do you distribute the water to them? They are either on the border of the Atlantic Ocean and the rivers that empty the Atlantic Ocean. So infrastructure, human capital planning is the issue, not availability of water. Johan, how are you? I'm fine, thank you. I must say, I sent from the CIA director. Well, I had heard of the speech, but then to actually get the transcript of it was useful. I thought it's very interesting. Yeah. I mean, he gives the bottom line. He talks about these plastic moments surprisingly open. Yeah, definitely. Well, and he's actually a pretty I wouldn't call him a political person. He's a very seasoned professional, both in diplomacy and in national security. That's why I found his words useful in a credible way. Yeah, he's right about the problems, but not always the solutions. But no one is right now. When we start the call, I appreciate a few comments from you about the NATO summit and what you think the deal with. And quite frankly, now, all of a sudden, the President of South Korea shows up in Ukraine, and that tells me he wants part of the reconstruction deal, is what it tells me. Yeah, I guess so. Got it verified because I think it's all about reconstruction now. I was at a meeting a month ago with Burns. I told you a few. Yeah, in Washington. I think that's been the theme he's been saying very often. So he gave similar comments to the conference you attended? Yes, very similar. Actually. The conference was mostly US democratic diplomats and Congresspeople policy people. Navarro are you back from Scotland? Oh, I'm now in my gliding place in central Italy because I could tell you're someplace different. My boat for the next month is a very interesting earthquake relief module and I bought it very used from the civil protection of so is that where you go to give yourself a safe feeling? No, that's on the airport. We have at the airport camping inside the airport and inside the camping there is this module together with many other people. So are you going gliding today? Not yet. I just arrived yesterday night. I sent on my glider this morning and had a couple of days of set up to do. But please let me disturb you with my no, you're not disturb. We're just informally chatting. So I have six of them. Alex, great to see you. Alex and Fangi and I all just got back from Dubai, but we'll tell you more about that in the meeting. But Alex had a bit of a rough going back to Singapore. But I see you in one piece, so it's good. What happened. He had to change planes in Mumbai. I couldn't get the tickets back direct back from this Dubai. Usually I fly directly and then this round I couldn't get from Emerald or Sq. So book Indian Airline. And then Vistara was 1 hour. I mean, the synthesis is supposed to be okay, but the security is quite interesting. I think they are look for vape. So even my presentation clicker the one that you turn the slice around, they thought it's a vape and they search out and ask okay, you can smoke something out there. I will congratulate you, Alex. You're not the sort of guy that I would imagine vaping. We ran out of breath. That was an adventure. I was the last two to enter the plane, so I guess there may be some singaporeans missed the flight. So never expect that to happen because the 1 hour connection usually is pretty okay. Especially you are only transit, but it's not al good morning. Good morning. I haven't answered your email yet because I just got back from Dubai. But I'll answer it later today and look forward to catching up before you go back out west. All right, sir. So, Alvaro, what is the best time of day for the gliding? I'm just wondering. A competition is a speed competition, a task of maybe three to 700. We prepare the glider from seven in the morning. It's a long story because of the navigation, the electronics and so on. At about 12:00, we start about maybe 1130. The start gate goes open, you choose the moment you start and you go as fast as you can. And we do this, say, 500, average speed of 120 km/hour or so. And that happens day after day for ten days. The first guy gets always 1000 points the fastest, and everybody else, slower, gets less points proportionate to the lower speed. And at the end of the ten days or two weeks, we sum up all the points and who is the best, the winner. And in the evening we go ahead and have a pizza and exchange all our lives. But it's three to 500 km on a glide. Yes. Wow. We are always ten minutes from a force landing, so we have also to find a place to uptraft and uptraft the digital glider faster than the glider is going down. We are look energy. And of course, the elegant way is we play chess with nature. And it's a very elegant thing, but the true thing, we are gypsies. We just feel energy where we can find it. And often we don't know why, but we get up and smile and gratefulness for our destiny. That's fascinating. So how many gliders will be in the competition today? 30, 40, maybe 50. Wow. But this is a Southern European championship. It's an international one. It's one of the three important in Europe. Wow. So lots of people come here. Is it total time, Aloft, or is it the total distance, which is the measure? No, the measure is speed. It's a regatta. We do 500 km an average, maybe 60, 70 miles an hour, even up to 100 miles an hour, occasionally without a drop of gasoline. When we speak of energy, we do a lot of energy. It goes into our frame of mind. Wow. Good morning, Howard. You're someplace you're a different place? Yeah, I'm in Hampton. Bays. Out in the Hamptons. The sun is just starting to come out. I may end up having to put sunglasses on for part of this. That's great to see you. It's nice. Yeah. Good to see you guys. Edmund Miller. Good morning. In Virginia, where it's hot and humid today. Hot and humid. Been that way for all week. Good morning, everybody. Morning. Good evening, Victor. Are you still in Rome? Yes, I am outside, actually. Much better than Rome today. Okay, sister Nelda, good evening to you. You're in the Philippines, I assume. Yes. It's 08:00 in the evening. We'll get started here shortly. What I've sort of pre asked Johann to do is now with the NATO summit over and Sweden has gotten a lot of tension. Again, if he would just give us a quick overview. But just hold on a second here. Roberto, great to see you. To see you all. We're going to have a bit of a smaller group today because several people are on vacation and away from their ability to call in. But that's fine. It can give us some additional informality here and review. But it's great to see everybody. Federico, I see you're back and I assume somewhere in the hills around Rome and not home. Back from America. Yes. Yeah. Federico was just in the US this week. Sadly, I missed him. But we look forward to his recap of discussions there, which I'm sure will be very interesting. But let's get started and good morning. Good afternoon. Good evening, everybody. And to start off with and just informally here, and because of the NATO summit, just concluding and I don't see really a clear word from it. And then all of a sudden, the President of South Korea pops into Ukraine yesterday, which suggests to me that South Korea is looking for a deal in the reconstruction package, is what it tells me. But anyways, the overall view and from the European side and from really a good military side. Johan, if you could give us a review of where you think things stand and are going. Thank you. Thank you. I think it's going quite well, but Eritregan has made it like a show, this whole thing here, and I think he enjoys it a lot and see how far he can go, how much he can get out of this process. And I think it would have been impossible for Sweden to participate this time as long as Ereduyan goes on, unless we have had help from all the other NATO countries and especially from us. So it will work. And now he's talking about recording in progress. He said, I don't know what happened to my yeah, go ahead, please. But I lost my picture. Maria, you can hear me, can see you fine. Yes. Okay. So what's happening now is that he's talking about the parliament. He said from the beginning that when they agree, that as soon as possible now he suddenly say that they will be together first in October. So he's continuing to do a lot of things here, but in the long run, from a military point of view, it doesn't really matter to Sweden right now because there is a lot of things to do before we can become members. We must recruit more officers, must train them and things like that. This is what's happening now, and I'm not concerned about it then about the committee. They had to strengthen, as you heard, a lot, and the countries need to put a lot of money. I think what's important now, and I don't think if they had really find out how we must have a lot of equipment that can be used I mean same kind of equipment that can be used in the right way in the future. But I think as the process is going on quite well and I think that most NATO countries realize that this is important, this is really important for all of us to get to get on with the process here and start planning. So I think the game with Sweden and Erdogan will go on for maybe in worst case, another couple of months. But in the long run, we will be members of NATO. And as I said, we had started and we have known this for a long time and we are building it up and we are a lot of cooperation with Finland, as usual. So the interesting thing that hasn't come up first now from Finland is I said it to you before, that the island here is non militarized zone. Sweeney finland has not been allowed to put any kind of military in peacetime equipment, troops or strange thing is that it was before United Nations they decided that Holland would be no troops and no military demilitarian, but it will be overseen to control that was given to Russia, and still it has. I think you need to change that quite soon here and make it possible to have military troops there and take out the control from Russia. I don't think Putin is major problem right now but for us in the long run that will be a problem. I don't think they even talked about the NATO summit so that's picture of the situation, it's going on quite well. I think it was rather good meeting and they have realized the necessary to work together to spend more money. First they were talking about 2% of the BMP but now it's talking about two and a half percent. So I think this is necessary in the so yeah, that's what I have to say right now. Thanks johan Elvaro, would you be willing to give some perspective from a European perspective of just what's going on and what lies ahead? I unfortunately missed half of Johann's extremely interesting starting presentation so it stopped with Finland and when you said the word Finland my audio card has a problem and I just in the last 10 seconds can you repeat the question? I apologize. It's really a strange glitch. The last thing I said was about Ola. Ola is a part of know but it's demilitarized. Sweden and Finland are not allowed to put any military equipment or military troops there during peacetime and it was the organization before the United Nations that decided this. This was about almost 100 years ago. And they said then that it will be overlooked, the control will be made that there were no military there by Russia, and this decision still exists. And I think we need to start talking about it and change the plans now, because it's necessary to have military troops now in Ola in the future and definitely not controlled by Russia. Very interesting. Phil, what did you ask? Yeah, if you could just give now an overview from a European perspective of what lies ahead, not on the military side per se, but from an overall European development and stability perspective. That's a tough one. I've been too out of contact, but I can just have a feeling that many countries have elections and that some countries, Spain for instance, are going to have a big change in the likely big change in their political setup. Italy just had one. And what of an impact this will have, I do not know, because from a political view, there is a growing separation that I feel between the people and the political organizations. I cannot say it's better, but it's growing and growing and growing. And I'm worried about this, but let me come back to this maybe in one or two months, because it's something that is very much on my mind, and I can probably give you a better answer. Okay. Somebody just started sheen scaring. It's not me, but my computer is giving me a lot of trouble. Okay. I think I turn it and come back. Okay. If you don't mind. Sure. Please go ahead. And, Kim, I added to our references this week an interesting study, which is not necessarily new information, but the way it's portrayed on population shift and geogrowth and references of population. I just thought, especially with the G 20 summit coming up, which is going to be in India and very much a global south perspective, if you could give some perspective on the population side. Thank you. Okay, thank you. And greetings, everybody. Yes, I've made some comments on this earlier in our previous calls that the contest between the US. And Russia over Ukraine and the US. And China about technology is kind of pulling lots of steam out of global discourses about some undercurrents that are happening that are not being well addressed by the global community. And that's demographic shift. And they are very substantive. We're talking about timelines of within one generation that things would shift substantively. A country like Africa is being seen mostly as 54 small countries. When you look at Burundi, it's barely 5 million people. When you look at the Chad or one individual country, they look small. And that's a lens through which Africa has been seen for so long. That's a microstate. But now that they're coming together into one economic bloc, and the demography on the continent is advantaging them much more substantively. The global north is decreasing, either stable or shrinking, and so is Asia. Countries like Korea, South Korea and Japan, the most industrialized states in Asia, they are shrinking. Even China, that was really increasing substantively. Now that they are correlatively industrialized, it seems like with the industrialization population shrinks, or at least they don't grow as fast as previously. For those that you call poorer countries, less material advancement. So if you look at the data, the hotbed of global demographic growth is actually Niger, northwest of Nigeria. If you want to look at individually about the poorest country on the continent or on the globe, barely anything to write home about except that they provide some of the uranium for the Global North nuclear systems. But that's where that's a hotbed of that's actually the bullseye of demographic shift. When you share the reading of this week, you notice that on that list, two of the top five growth countries in population, or growth countries in population are in Africa. Nigeria, by 2050, will be more than the US in population. And by 2010, by 2010, Lagos alone, their capital city on the Atlantic coast would be 80 million people. That's 80. That's not too far from now. And Congo, which is usually known mostly for its conflict and other minerals and natural resources and civil wars, but no one is seeing the undercurrent of their growth. They will be the second largest city, their capital city, which is Kinshasa, so it's Ethiopia and Kenya. So generally, besides Africa, you also have Pakistan. Indiana is already overtaking China, so you have Pakistan. The Global South is growing substantively in population, while the Global North and those who normally call advanced countries, developed countries, they're stagnating or actually reducing. Now, that might cause domestic problems in the Global North in terms of retirement and the labor force and how to manage revenues and taxes and the overall internal demographic management. But in the south, in the Global South, it's a big boom and the weaker and also offers a market. So the challenge for these countries is how do they handle it? I am African, and I say this for this reason. The African world is more concerned about the Global North's, worry about its population and their actions to control the populations of the Global South. It is very evident. Two weeks ago, about a month ago, the French Minister of Foreign Affairs Cooperation was going to visit Africa, actually visit Cameroon, my home country, and they resisted and they didn't want him to visit, actually refused to visit. And why? Because he was going to hold a meeting on the LBGTQ activity in Africa. And Africa rejected that. There are many themes of family management and family planning coming now from the Global North under the guise of the aid packages and development aid and bilateral cooperation instruments. Family planning is becoming more and more a key element of that. How about they culture? And the African world knows that very well. It's worried about these demographics. The issue, if you see Europe now, is getting more and more engaged with the countries that migrate, that is along the Mediterranean, egypt, Tunisia, Libya, and actually putting substantive resources to control migration across the Atlantic. Across the Mediterranean. Now, yes, of concerns about deaths of people crossing, the numbers are very small. Compared to how many actually achieve that crossing. Over 99% achieve it. So Europe is actually already worried about this population from the south hitting up north, either from Africa on the Mediterranean or from Asia or Middle East, syria and the global south across, say, Greece, Greece and Turkey. So to me, while the west and the strongest powers focus on technology, the global south is really shifting the center of population, the center of the numbers. And with those numbers comes implications. I was looking at a slide here just before Phil called me to make some comments. School going age populations between now and 2035, 74% of those will be focused on it will be 74% of those of the increase in university, say between 16 and 25 years old from now to 35, 74% of those are concentrated in the global south, pakistan being one of them. And almost all of them are in Africa from Uganda to Ethiopia to Congo and to Nigeria. Now, what does it mean in terms of the concern that the global north normally know security, terrorism, create markets for their products? What does it mean? That's not very well yet being looked into or studied again, as I mentioned, because of the over preoccupation with the China and Russia factors. So it's a wait and see. But by mid this century, 20 something years from now, africa will only be 2.3 million billion people. 2.3. By the time the world is 9 billion, it's not 8 billion by the time it's 9,000,000,001, quarter will be in Africa directly. So what does it mean for geopolitics, for global markets, for centers of security and insecurity, if I may say it that way, for the things that would enable a global peaceful coexistence or further conflicts of any sort? What does it mean? And these are growing, if I may add this in a context where even though some problems are analyzed more than others on the global scene, this global south is not particularly aligned with the interest of the traditional west. You saw that in the Ukraine problem. Barely anybody wanted to go with the west, even under substantive pressure, and they didn't want to go with the west. The history of the last 70 years, the less developed world from their perspective, their leadership circles blame their underdevelopment on Western policies and Western alliances. They've been under Western titulation for so long, and so they see themselves in order to do better, they have to actually misalign know, shift a little bit. And these are facts from the west. So you have seen this population shift towards centers of the global south that are not necessarily they love the Western soft power, the culture, their music and many other things as humans. But in terms of global policy, they're actually trying to move away. You see it in the BRICS, you see it in China's influence on the continent, you see it in even Turkey's influence on the continent. And lessening influence of Western powers. US. Secretary of State Antony Blinken has been there many times. He can barely convince one government to align with US. Policy. The US. Hosted African Head of State in December. They went back all angry and furious at both how they were treated, what they came back with, and the whole idea of the US continuing the policies of the last 70 years that have not brought, from their perspective, substantive development. So you're getting Africa, you're getting the Global South growing substantively in numbers and shifting away from the traditional and Western powers. What does it mean for control? Can the Western powers adjust the lenses through which they see things and accommodate this shift and these sentiments at a global scale? Can they understand that military power, enough alone is not sufficient to manage global affairs? As these ships occur? Are token overtures still useful when Southern countries are coming of age and trying to demand their own place as they deserve or as they think they deserve from the UN's structural arrangements to all the other global institutions? I don't know. I mentioned at the last summit in Paris on global finance. The Global South, led by Kenya especially, and Barbados, they pretty much rose up against the traditional systems of global finance that they want alternatives. So you have this shift on the Global South at all levels. And my sense is that very soon this shift will also be metamorphos or grow into some kind of security alliances in the Global South. It's very obvious their security will come from their own. They know that their relationship with the west hasn't provided them what they would have liked for last 70 years. So the BRICS, let me say, the affiliation with each other, the global south realities. I think very soon you see them going from trade alliances, aid alliances, common banking alliances, financial systems, de dollarization as they're all asking for it, asking why the dollar should be the mediating currency for neighboring countries that are very far from Washington DC. Whatever the issues, you might see this eventually morph into security alliances among themselves. What does it mean? I don't know. But they are being buffered especially. They are being driven especially by demographic shift, which are very real and they're very rapid and they're very substantive. How the world wake up from overly focusing on militarization of global affairs and looking at China and Russia as their target and being blindsided by these shifts undertones in the Global South is not very clear yet, but it's surely an area for observation. So that's what I can say for thanks. And Kim. And so Devenda noticed that Prime Minister Modi was in Paris for Bastille Day yesterday as the honored guest. Of course, he was in Washington last month. Can I show you the next project, the painting? This is looking really good. Okay, fill in with dirt. Yeah, hold on. Who's ever speaking, I think. It's. So it's painting what and Primer Joshua, you were on okay, sorry. That was Josh. He was mistakenly not on mute. Anyways. Divinda prime Minister Modi was in Paris yesterday. Of course. He was in Washington for a state visit a couple of weeks ago. He's leading the G 20 clipping on to what Nkim just presented on Global South. It is definitely taking on some acceleration as a force, but I think the keystone that we have to watch closely is the BRI summit that will happen in Beijing in October. And so, Davinda, if you could offer a few comments, please. Thank you. Thank you, Phil. The visit to Paris pretty much emulated the visit to Washington. Many defense related agreements to commercialize defense production in India, acquisition of submarines out of France, technology collaboration. Looking at India that has a range of engagement areas or contact points or partnership points with the Global North, whether it be the US or France, seems to be the template that Prime Minister Modi is following to deepen and broaden relationships with the Global North. At the same time, as Phil mentioned, he will be chairing and hosting the G 20 in September in New Delhi. And the finance ministers of the G 20 are meeting next week in the home state of Prime Minister Modi in Gujarat. It has a full agenda from the news reports that have been written up to now. We'll have to see what actually comes out of the Finance Minister's meeting next week, Monday through Wednesday. Clearly, India is trying to bridge the Global North to the Global South and been positioning itself as the leader of the Global South, engaging with the north both bilaterally and multilaterally. It's a two track policy that seems to be implementing to reposition India as a major player in the global be. And it's interesting to talk about elections in Europe. There will be a series of elections coming up in India that will lead up to parliamentary elections in 2024. That would mean Prime Minister Modi would be up for reelection for a third term. It would be interesting to see how the Indian voters express their views on the leadership that Prime Minister Modi has carved out for India in the Global North and south. But clearly, the G 20 in September will be a major milestone for India's positioning of the Global South. Thank you, Phil. Thank you. I've seen a couple of reports on the digital side, on the AI side, and India is sparking in that as well. But just to sort of put some context on the digital side before we proceed further on that, peter, you have some updates which you say are rather significant just in the past week. If you could frame those for us. Thank you, sir. I'll do that quickly. Phil, can you hear me? Yes, please go ahead. So, three things have happened. It's sort of Eurie that we talk about things one week and then the next week it sort of flips on its head. So if you remember Last said, you know, if the product is free, you're the product. So an American comedian named Sarah Silberman has now sued OpenAI because she claims that OpenAI has scraped all of her comedic content on the Internet and is now using it to inform the large language model for the purposes of responding to requests for comedic input. So she's not being paid anything, and all of her intellectual property, in her view, has been stolen, and she's getting no compensation for it. So that's kind of a really interesting development the last week. The second one which is linked to that is the Federal Trade. Peter, we lost you. You went on mute all of a sudden. Okay. There. We lost you at the Federal Trade Commission. Okay, thanks. The Federal Trade Commission has also opened a case against OpenAI for exactly the same purpose, which is that they claim that content's being scraped without compensation by people who don't want it scraped and then effectively resold. For those of you who don't know, you can become a paid member of OpenAI to gain more access to a higher quality large language model. The third thing very much related for those of you who are watching and might not understand the nuance, is that the Screen Actors Guild that went on strike, one of the pillars of their strike is that the studios want to pay actors to be scanned for one day. And once that scan has taken place, then the studios want a perpetual license to reuse that scanned image for the purpose of AI character creation. So again, if you're an actor, it's kind of like game over if the studios win that contract clause. And I have no idea what's going to happen. But I would tell you that it is kind of a battle around AI now because people see that it's actually practical. I did see a video recently of someone that I like watching, and they repurposed this actress as this crazy soldier, and it really was quite remarkable and of course, didn't pay her for that. So that's sort of the three things that have happened. I want to close with a really positive, interesting AI story, which is JetBlue is now reporting savings of several million dollars a year. There's a new AI application that consumes weather data at a zip code level, including from connected cars that have windshield wipers that are washing. So it then aggregates this massive amount of weather data from satellites, from vehicles, from other sources, and delivers to JetBlue very precise routing data down to specific runways, so that JetBlue can now optimize its use of airplanes when it lands, when it takes off where it lands. And they claim that the optimization around that scheduling as a result of having micro weather, real time micro weather knowledge, has been quite dramatic. So I thought that was a really productive and interesting application of AI. And we're always being so negative, at least I am in this group, that I thought I should end on a positive note. Phil and on air traffic control, that'll be a very interesting additive. If you could just add, though, one quick comment on so what is Elon Musk up to with his new yeah, so good question. So, first of all, everyone's realized they have to stake out, particularly public companies need to stake out some kind of territory in the AI landscape. The other thing is, and I'm not going to comment on Elon Musk's personality, I don't know him, so I can't really make a comment about him. But he is an owner of AI, he was one of the founders of OpenAI and he's come into direct conflict with Sam Altman and feels that and part of it's around Twitter, and the fact that OpenAI has been scraping Twitter, which is a huge issue for Twitter, back to the Sarah Silverman issue. So as a result, I think that this week Elon and I think he calls it Aix or I can't remember the exact name, but the point is, he's launched his salvo against OpenAI and know I have a better solution, it's going to be more compliant. Thank you, Howard X AI. Thanks, Howard. So I think this is right now, it could be vaporware, it might be real. I'm sure he'll focus a lot of resources on it, but it was sort of a necessary response to the incredible pace at which OpenAI is opening its distance. By the way, Google's in the same position. They're working hard with Bard to try and say we're as good or better than OpenAI. So everyone's now in this arms race around, we've got the best AI engine. And I'll tell you, in some sense, don't let the perfect be the enemy of the good. All these large language models have strengths and weaknesses and most of them work reasonably well for what they do. But look, the Holy Grail is inference. The Holy Grail is not finding the next word. The Holy Grail for just general AI is that the systems can make inferences and discover truths that we don't yet understand. So I think Elon's on that war path as well as everybody else. At the end of the day, Elon is about space, which we'll see. Well, no, actually, but the AI stuff is really around Twitter. He's got some big issues with Twitter and AI is just one of them, but it's a big one. So Alex and Fongi and I were invited to have a meeting at the Dubai Future Foundation this past week and we went and I'm going to ask Alex to brief you on that because the DFF is organizing what I think could be quite an interesting, especially in view of timing, in October, an assembly on generative AI. So Alex, if you could review that, please. Thanks. I'm just going to go a little bit off. But before that, let me just quickly brief everybody about the meeting in Dubai. Dubai Future Foundation phil has been working very closely with them in terms of setting up the Generative AI forum. So this is annual forums that Dubai Future Foundation will run every year. The thematic speech will be quite different. So this year they are focusing on Generative AI. So we feel we share with them that some of the major issues of Generative AI in the current context, especially, for example, that for most of the Generative AI right now they are mostly Western value and system thinking bias, which is the contact person that we spoke with in DFF, agree with She's Aria. So Aria is also very aware that the Generative AI that currently we see is pretty much very Western. Anybody with the Eastern culture, they will find it quite difficult and difficult to use on that. She specifically came back to us and said that includes our Arab cultures. Exactly. So to most of the Asians who use it, they will find that it is not easy to train and converse with the Western AI, even with the language translation, et cetera. So this is largely you don't see that on the press because the press is also overwhelming Western, what's it called dominated. So what we are seeing is that we are sharing her and helping her to understand that there's one part of the generic AI done by China, for example, Utah, is something that needs to be included in the forum. While we are discussing about this one, there's something that actually came out is about foresighting. There's something I will add a little bit later. The foresighting elements of Dubai Future Foundation. As they talk about Future, they would like to be able to identify what are the new things, what are the new trends and things to do. Typically they spend between six to eight months to come up with something and often that it is manpower intensive as well as that when the trend finally panned down, the trend may already form and maybe already gone. So that is one of the key issues. That is when Farmy shared about the software that he has been working, the AI software, the Ruby Dim Ruby that he's been working. And Alia was pretty, what's it called, excited about this. And he thinks that this is something that will solve their problem. Now, we were talking a little bit more about NA assessment in terms of education. I think that is something that she's also very interested. So the meeting we will continue following up because at the very first part we will be talking about what's it called, the applications of the assessment, thinking and system and software to be used with Dubai Future Foundation. At the same time that we may want to also be part of the speaking engagement to facilitate some of the workshop down there. So that's about pretty much the update about Alex. If you could add in about Audrey and how she took to that and just remind everybody who Audrey is. Yes. So while we are talking about the east and west difference, the east is taking the digital space rather differently. East is looking at the whole thing as a more systemic way instead of individual. For example, I think there's some discussion on the chat about what's it called the AI being alive or even a life form. You don't see much of the AI being dooms in Asia as a discussion largely because that in Asia we look at the whole thing as a system. There's nothing right or wrong, it is just two different ideology or any conflicting you can say that it's being young. So in the Asian context we always look at the whole system that all elements are part and parcel in the whole element. It's not conflict. So Audrey is the digital minister for Taiwan and she's one of the pioneer in building system open software foundations together with the US party and she's the first one to build system that is outside the government as well as inside the government to facilitate the people engagement with the government. So V Taiwan is one of them and the other one is the gov zero. That means that there's a government but there is no government in a sense that it is a software driven environment where people can contribute, co govern the whole country. It is something very unique and this happened before the so called generative AI, but the software themselves has some bit of intelligence and we believe that it may help to start changing how the world is being governed. So we proposed and shared with Alia about Audrey and she was very excited to include Audrey as one of the speaker. But of course we know that there is geopolitical conflicts of Taiwan having a digital minister to represent in the conference this way. So we will let her DFF to sort that out but we will make the connection and introduce them together. So today is one of the very interesting and in fact she would like Audrey to come in as her official capacity instead of her technical capacity. All right, so that's something that we find very interesting and that's something that will be we'll see how the thing pan out. I'm just going to sidetrack a little bit and round back to talk about foresighting is that there's quite a number of interesting observations that happened to us but if we are not putting them all into context, we may see them as individual so called events. Take for example that I think Johan mentioned about Ukraine and Ukraine reconstruction. So it is happening but looking at the satellite map of Ukraine and I think the situation is quite bad, almost everything is destroyed. But that is also also a very huge opportunity that Ukraine can be a very good industrial 4.0 experiment. That means that whatever you build can be totally digital, can be totally what they call automated. So manpower will be less of the concern. And that is one of the deep conversation right now happening in the consultancy space. We are seeing that, especially that looking at the timeline. The timeline is particularly interesting. I think Peter mentioned about a few weeks ago about EY having the conference in UK about Ukraine reconstruction. A typical consulting company will only talk about something that is a project possibility in about six months. So if you start drawing out the timeline, you're having a conference right now, six months later, which also means somewhere in the middle, the war should be finishing. All right. And then things got more interesting as I start looking at netherlands government is being dissolved because of immigration issues. Not that it has never happened before. The government dissolved quite a number of times, and the PM always come back. But this round he said he's not going to do it. But what we find the timing is interesting because he's going to be a caretaking government. And then which also means that he will not be doing anything at all. That means you don't need to promise, you don't need to execute anything for three months. The timeline somehow will land in the September October period for the next election. Similarly, when you look at Wagner group, who went to meet up with Putin, reported Wall Street Journal 37 commanders meeting, that means at 35, top commander meeting, two chiefs. What does it sounds like? Although on the superficial level, all the four points, the first three point is all about the grievances, but the last one is about what can the commanders do in the future. And the statement end with that all that pledge allegiance to Russia, Mother Russia and Putin. To me that it doesn't sound really like say hello and Pacification, but it sounds more like order group. If that is an order group, it also means that some offensive and things would likely happen in about two and a half months, three months, which the timeline also end up in sometime late September or October. Now, there's quite a number of incidents that all converge in that timeline. I will not spend time talking about it, but Phil mentioned about the Korea president who visited Kiev and talking about reconstruction. Somehow the timeline also converged around that time. So is that something that happened in September October period? Probably. And what is it? We still do not know. But we kind of start looking at all this so called NQR. The next is that everything is going digital, especially the currency portion of it. So Russia russia has officiated the so called digital transaction we look at it very similar to what Singapore already have. And connecting to the Singapore digital system is quite easy. And you can quickly hop over to india, which we already have a so called bilateral and digital connection with a system we call Paynew. Now, now, having said that is that a lot of people still do not understand that. I think DeSantis mentioned that the moment you get elected, the first thing will stop the CBDC. But the key problem is that this is a trend that I think nobody can stop. We will go digital. The question will be that what exactly is that digital? By looking at the movement is that it is likely that we are making money back to its role as a medium of transaction instead of money being a product. So it becomes digital that you don't have to move the money, but you use it as a medium of transaction. As of right now, because of US dollar, it is a product you buy and sell US dollar. You buy US dollar, you use it, you sell US dollar to get back your money so that you can use it. So, because money having product become a lot of derivative all this, I think it is a trend for us to go back. Rather the system is going back. The money role will be a medium transaction, especially for local currency transaction, our city for that matter. And that is something interesting because now BIS mentioned about 25 countries to have the CBDC end of this year. So the timing again that they say that why everything happened around that period. Okay? Now all this thinking and picking out all this information are not done by AI, but basically I've got no time to run it through the AI, but basically it's just part of my material fact collection. So I start looking at that. Now in over in Asia, the timeline is also very interesting because I think Modi is trying to change the civil code to do that. For a 1.4 billion population, this is quite impactful. Don't know what is going to happen, but that could be something very dangerous. But we never know. And Israel has already finalized its judiciary reform, which causing a lot of riot. Thailand is doing something similar also. So the populist elected, what's it called, Member of Parliament. They don't have a PM yet. Is probably trying to instigate the people to really start pushing and putting pressure on the existing government. They are trying to change the Senate capability of dictating who is going to appear. So that is something that is worrying and it may have potential for riots, especially for us in the ASEAN, stability means prosperity. We do not want to have any riots that happen down there. But potentially that can be an issue. All right, now, turning over to look at Africa and Middle East, they are all now looking for something very interesting knowledge to build their enterprise and innovation ecosystem. The reason why I'm knowing about it is because I'm right in the center of it and I always receive a lot of requests about them wanting to do it. Now, the key problem is that they all wanted the knowledge. They're all thinking that the world is pivoting towards the global south. But the problem is that nothing happened. The consultants and everybody say, yeah, the opportunity is there, but where is the money? If they are not paying, they are not doing it's. A very simple capitalist thinking is that, if I cannot collect my fee, why am I bother to go down there and have my yellow fever jet to do that? I think that is one of the key things. Now, there's a lot of promises coming from the Western government. They are all very practical. The African are very practical. These are promises. Until the money is here, okay, not going to do anything. I can smile, you take pictures, but forget about that. And the Western government is not doing anything other than giving promises. Not sure why it is, but even for the China and some of the Asian government, they are also tiptoeing. I guess everybody is waiting for somebody. So you can probably share Kim's kind of frustration that, yeah, everything's supposed to move there, but nothing seems to be moving fast enough. It could be slowly, and eventually, once you cross the tipping point, it will happen rapidly, but the shift will happen probably only when the people are clear of the ROI. All the concept of ROI change. So for China, they are thinking very long term. So they will be thinking, what's it called? Arboi? Could be five years, ten years, even 20 years. While for the Western capitalists, they are looking at the ROI. Well, three months, half year, maybe maximum nine months. They need to see the outcome because your shareholder, they're going to pressurize you. So there is a lot of things that supposed to happen, but doesn't happen out there. And meanwhile, the food issue in Africa is getting quite acute. Would there be a riot? Okay, so mapping the timeline again, I'm seeing that it's about three months. So September, October is another so called triggering point that I begin to feel very uneasy. So, meanwhile, that which I took back to talk about DFF, is that a lot of sovereign fund or sovereign government or sovereign interest in foresighting? To know what is going on in the future, I just give you two. One is the Dubai Future Foundation, which you mentioned already. They map out and they published the 50 Trend for 2023. So that's what they did, and they released it on February. The other one is Tamasic Singapore. And they did it a little bit interesting that basically they make it become a contest. You can call it a crowdsource, basically a contest to send it to all the children and ask them to think, what would the future like in 2050 submit as an essay or graphic or videos and well, basically collecting ideas. They are using the kids who think what could be their future and do the foresighting. And this is pretty similar to what DFF is doing. He's getting all his government people and in fact they publish on their website and ask anybody government employee who are interested to become a futurist. They are committed to train them and use them to start mapping the future. So we are seeing that is beginning to see the sovereign interest in it as part of it. Is it because the world is getting very chaotic and much to deal with? The reference article that I think Phil send is the world transform and intelligence is very much needed. Net assessment is something that I think we need. The question is how to get that to the people who need it and can use it. Now we are seeing that some of the big corporations are doing the same thing. Also they are now beginning to work on training the people for foresighting. And also that the other part most of people don't see is that high net worth individual are training their second generation in Singapore as well as we saw in Dubai. Some fathers are taking their kids with them for a business trip. They're doing that they are doing that because they want to expose the younger generation and hopefully they can learn from the father. Now there isn't a structure training for them. So they will be learning by following, I'm saying all these things. That is all still back to something that we need to be able to analyze the world and must be of a very systematic way of doing it. And using technology is one way that we can do a lot faster. Is it going to be more accurate? Not necessarily. Are we going to worry about the technology eventually kill us? Well, in Asia we don't really bother about that because it's part and parcel of just the whole system. All right, stop here and back to you, Phil. Thanks a lot, Alex. And I should just note that Fang Yi gave his best ever presentation, interactive presentation in Dubai this last week. It was on Ruby and the was actually he's going to end up being one of the workshop speakers in October in Dubai. So that'll be great. Matsuda Sensei, I see you're with us today in Taiwan, I assume, and it's great to see you back. It would be wonderful for us to hear some perspective of the last month or so from on the ground in Taiwan about just events going on. Thank you. Well, thank you. Phil, can you hear me? Yes, we can hear you and see you. Thank you. I'm still outside but I can share about the political situation in Taiwan. It's an election year and the election presidential election is going to be held next January. Recording in progress. And so far the current administration, the tiny Wean administration is highly appreciated because of her stable and predictable political policies. Towards China. The big issue is whether the next administration can inherit or change the current policies toward mainland China. And so far the ruling party is united and Taiwan successor, Vice President Li is the most hopeful candidate. And KMC TPP and independent candidates. There are three candidates and all of them believe that they can unite anti DPP forces. Nobody can back off so that this kind of turmoil may continue. A turmoil inside the non DPP. Anti DPP could continue till September or November. So if this situation continues, I think that the most hopeful candidate is but he has a little bit kind of a risk. He is a traditional PPP which has position of Taiwanese dijon independence. Although he is denying the possibility of announcement of the jury independence, people still think that he is less stable, less predictable compared to tiny west. So this is going to be a very interesting issue. And if we compare three candidates, non DPP candidates, the TPP's Co Winter is the most hopeful and he is quite popular in the especially young voting traditional, very interesting candidate. So in other words, the biggest proposition came which have very good relations with the men in China, is not hopeful if official candidates mark the smallest number of approval ratings among all candidates. So this is not a good situation for China, obviously. So I think that the rest of the world prepare for the continuation of the political situation. I think that this is the current situation. Thank you. Matsura Sante. How long are you there? Another couple of months. Right? I'll be staying here until the end of this year, next year. So you'll be there through okay, so just before the election you'll come home? Yeah, but I will make another okay, well, it's great there should be a termination because of great seeing you and thanks for your insights as you're on the walk there. Appreciate it. Federico, you're just back from a week in Washington where I'm sure you've had a lot of interactions on all sorts of things, mostly financial, but if you could give us some thoughts and reflections post your trip to Washington. Thank you. You muted sorry, we can hear you. Yeah. If you could give us some reflections of your trip to Washington in the past week and your sense of things going on. Thank you. Okay, my pleasure. I have to explain, I have been there for several reasons. One is today's meeting of the Aspen Institute on transatlantic COVID status and then some meetings in the World Bank that I organize on my own for my professional activity. So plus some usual meeting I tend to have in a group of think tanks of several positions that of course I try to see when I come. I would like to focus essentially on one thing because, of course, topics that we discussed were pretty broad, which is the economic side. Also, the one that is more, let's say. Close to my competences. So the situation at the moment is very difficult to describe in a unique way worldwide. Okay. Never in the past has been, of course, a simple case but at the moment we have consensus analysis in the sense of how inflation may turn slightly down in the coming months and years. And this is more or less what is going on due to the initiatives of the central banks on both sides of the Atlantic with differences that you see that is that the European part in the past was more driven from gas and electricity supply costs for non structural. Now it's becoming milder, more structural. While the US side was originally a bit, let's say, more structural than the European but now let's say have an implication which is that the perceived inflation in the country might be higher than the one that is declared. I'm not speaking about the figures that are official figures, of course. What you can imagine. Well, one thing is that whatever economic policy the US side takes, it's very difficult to imagine that the EU will not follow that in order to keep more or less align the value of the euro and the dollar, which is leading to a long term idea that the two currencies should move more or less in the same direction rather than to be, let's say, one the alternative or the other, as it has been maybe in the remote path with the idea of the demarc and the dollar at the time. The second aspect is related to differences that we see around when, let's say, we have occasion to touch base about the relevant problems in terms of measuring the impact, the social impact of inflation, in the sense that in all cases there has been, of course, a little attack by inflation, which, of course, have driven to a number of consequences. In Europe we see this far more on, let's say, the nominal side. So the level that impacts on salaries and the capability of spending of families. But given to the Social Security schemes that we have broadly around the European U 27 which difference between the new members? Well, I speak still new members but the post 2004 ones, the eastern part and the western part. Well, you continue to have a perception which is touching more hardly, let's say, the middle class level of wages rather than the top and the lowest one. But in some countries that a significant impact such as for example in most of Mediterranean countries you had increases in those citizens in the number of those citizens considered in the close to poverty threshold. Now, the so called poverty of course is something more statistical than that factor because of course differs from part to part of the world and of course in Europe it is not comparable at all to a poor in some emerging countries. Having said that it gives an immediate impact about the feeling of less security and more provisional life that you have in several EU countries where population is more or less inhabited, to have a certain level of protections which might have in the future. Again, some impact on the political consensus of government continue to see sudden shift, a majority sudden shift in government just because of the effect of, let's say, the difficult economic conditions on the US side. Of course, I'm far less inclined to judge, you know better than I do. What I am struck a bit is the fact that both in New York and Washington I had occasion to go and ask for a very simple breakfast in public places and I had to pay an average of $20, sometimes even more, to have Jack just a can of late croissant and orange juice. And I was thinking, well, in Rome you get the same for six euro, 50 at the limit and much better quality, by the way. So that to me has been something significant in terms of what I imagine to be the real feeling of people. It seems something close to the cheeseburger economy, the McDonald's test that you do about what is the standard of living in a certain country. Well, at the moment, 15 years ago when I was living in Washington, you could have said more or less is one to one. So the kind of thing that you can spend spending 50 euro in Europe are the same as you get with $50 in the US. Having this test just done, I would imagine something very different at the moment, which of course drives to a number of, let's say, basic consequences about social stability and long term perspective in political terms because of course those things might have impacts in the medium to long terms, of course, when people go to vote. But I will stop here because all the insider about who will run for election will be their Trump or not, the President or not and so on. Well, I leave them to American commentators. It will be, let's say for sure, very interesting to hear an opposition. There are some logical ideas about this may happen or not, but I would be relatively skeptical on any kind of sure scenario. I see a lot of uncertainty. Thank you, Phil. And Prime Minister Maloney comes here soon, I think, to the US. Correct? Yes. In fact, during my visit I was a visit also of Primonti, the Chair of the Forefair Committee of the House and of Piatidosi, the Ministry of Interior. So I would imagine Melody will come to discuss on the Italy positioning and support of the US in the south flank of NATO Mediterranean. Thank you. And maybe of the telbest. Thanks and I hope you get some relaxation during the coming week. Howard, I see the sun in and out of your eyes now. I hope all is well. And if you could offer some reflection on what you're hearing and seeing in the past week. Thank you. Yeah, well, I think Frederico had it just right. I mean it is very uncertain right now what's going to happen in the US elections. There is just too much talk and the real season starts in January, February and we have so much going on in the courts with the Trump prosecutions and whether they will go anywhere and it just makes it high uncertainty level and highly dysfunctional government right now in the US. Yesterday the DoD Defense Funding Act went through the House and they made it a hugely partisan bill, much more than anyone ever expected and much more than as usual, which is going to cause more fighting and more polarization and that is very unfortunate that I hear. Look on the Gen AI stuff as we know that's going to keep us thinking for the next five or ten years. We had our offsite this week for B Capital and we had almost a full day of discussion with Boston Consulting Group BCG our own people about how every company is figuring out how to use AI technologies, and particularly gen AI technologies, to reduce their workforce to be able to. And I think that is something that's inevitable, which means that the economic issues of labor force are going to be more and more coming to the fore in the US. The big problem right now, a big problem is that we don't have enough workers to do the low end jobs because we've cut off immigration to such a large extent and that continues to be cut off under the Biden administration. That hasn't changed pretty much at all. It's gotten tighter and as a result we don't have enough people doing the low end jobs which makes it very difficult for us to be able to move forward. So I think that's mean everybody has their youth who are more and more on computers and on different social networking methodologies and even if you try to limit it as China does, they still want to be there and that is something that's not changing either. So I really do think that we have to worry much more or think much more about how the next generation is going to be using all these things that we've built. And I know alex and the people in singapore have been doing a lot of work on that, but that is where we need the net assessment, if you will, which is to say the world is going in a very different direction in terms of the way we train our kids because we're going to see gen AI used in education and then in the way that they interact with one another, whether it's mediated by social media or getting them back together. Yet physically, the notion that kids should be in a forum like this one where they can interact with people around the world on a regular basis is something that is really not brought up very much. And yet it's something that if we're going to have a world that's less polarized, we're going to have to do. So I'd like to see us be able to figure out how to bring those technologies across the world as well. I'll stop there, Phil. Thank you, Howard. Have a great week up there. Tyvin, I see you're with us today, and I've seen two articles this week on the effect of gen AI and AI overall in the medical field, everything from brain surgery in Hong Kong sponsored by the Chinese Academy of Science, which I found very interesting. It tells me that the Chinese Academy of Sciences sort of consumed research in Hong Kong. The other one was specifically oncology related, which is your field. But if you could give us some sense and update of your sensing of this and where you see things going in the AI world in medicine. Thank you. Thank you, Phil. Good morning. I think it's a tool that we're going to use. We are using, and it will be, hopefully scientifically, quote unquote driven, where you come up with a reasonable hypothesis based on fact, use it to generate a hypothesis and test it. And AI can collect an enormous amount of data and put it into new perspectives. Different perspectives allow you to give you resource to ask new questions about those data, which will, I think, lead to success. Now, you have to, though, start with in Oncology. I having been a member of the Oncology community for 45 years. I don't look back with any regrets whatsoever, but I'm thinking of writing a book of what COVID did to me my considerations of cancer. Now, there's a lot of C's in there, I realize that. But it allowed me to sort of take a break because I stopped seeing patients for almost a year for a variety of reasons and looked at the alternatives to the understanding of cancer. And it's based on 50 years of the Watson Crick DNA informational model that that was going to answer all of our questions. We coded the human genome and we were going to have a better map to get from DC to La. But it only worked in a few cases. You look at glivc or chronic myelogic leukemia, we made a big advance and it was a home run. And when it came out in around 2001, the editorial in New England Journal of Medicine by a prominent oncologist said, well, we found the Holy Grail to cure cancer. We have it. And it worked in one pathway where a certain tumor with the Philadelphia chromosome and CML showed that there was a break in the progression of metabolism with this tyrosine kinase signal that was always signaling the cell to proliferate. And what they discovered was, well, if we interrupt that pathway, A to B to C, it worked in that singular case. There's a handful, a small handful, actually less than the fingers of two hands. Where this model of what they call the Somatic mutation theory, which the healthcare system is built on, basically providing actionable mutational models for new drugs to go into essentially palliative care for cancer patients, the whole system is built on that. Well, that's where we are right now, mainly. But there are other voices that are now understanding the atavistic model or evolutionary model of cancer development, progression and hopefully treatment, which is very complex. But we're getting insights into this and I think AI will be a tremendous tool to apply to that model, which I think down the road I'm thinking 2030 next generational advances will come from something like that. So there's hope. Listen, if you have a certain kind of tumor, you can get a little bit better out of it, but it's not going to cure you. It's extending out things and it's extremely expensive. The government with the FDA and the drug companies are basically it's a roundabout circle. People can make a lot of money on Wall Street by picking out the winners or having some idea. But that's one model where I think AI will make some sense. I would just comment on the perspective of AI and government and policy making if I heard Alex right. They're testing how AI can be used with governmental oversight and sort of a marriage with the two for the purposes of establishing sound policy. We've had a lot of experiments in the world, maybe led by us and Europeans and the Far East with regard to things that we're seeing are a problem right now. For instance, food supply. We know the food supply in this country produces a certain contribution to chronic illness. And we see that in our country, our median or our lifespan has actually decreased. Well, our price has gone up. Does the world want to see that model embraced? Maybe we want to get a little smarter about extending our life at a certain reasonable cost. Our cost for health care in this country is three to five times any other western developed country. When you talked about the world south, that's a whole nother set of problems that AI will probably contribute. But we got to be careful in how we design the experiment. And maybe not go with the western diet, but look at the local diets that have evolved there and served people well, but how they can be improved. So I digress there a little bit, but I do find it interesting that at least someone's doing the experiment with AI and governmental policy and maybe it'll remove the partisan ruffling that comes so much when you go to try to establish policy on the other side. It might help American corporations with governmental oversight or cooperation to get a well oiled machine. Because I do think the intellectual property or prowess, the intellectual prowess of what we have in the west and the Northern hemisphere, the past is prologue. Come on. We found the microscope and the telescope about the same time. And that was a pivot point in history where things knowledge exploded and we saw the benefits of that. The last thing I'll say is just about the fact that I am 100% Ukrainian. I do find that there are ways of trying to fight the gangster, the mob mentality. I don't know what's going on in Russia, I don't really care, but I know what they did to Ukraine. So I'm keen on making sure that the morale of that group of people, which is incredibly high to go through the unspeakable tragedies there. I just want to continue to support them. So I'll stop there. Thank you very much for that overview Tyvin. Peter Taurus. You had some comments in the chat. It's great to see you. If you'd like to follow on a you, Peter. Oh, there you go. Thank you. Hi, Phil, can you hear me? Yes, we can. Thanks. Okay. This past week I was in Newport, Rhode Island. I was attending two financial conferences. One was with offices and private equity, which was very interesting. One of the speakers was Jane Goodall, the famous wildlife conservationist from Africa, where she spoke about her charity, which was called Roots and Shoots. Again, I'm just sharing some general information. I'm also invited to a meeting coming up where General petreas will be the speaker 11th. So he'll be giving remarks September 11 and that's going to be coming up from Manhattan and trying to think what other everyone saw the launch by Meta. So that sets an amazing new business model and paradigm up because of the vast users of Meta where they can instantly ramp a business up within hours. I mean, obviously preparing it behind the scenes, but then launching it in hours and reaching numbers that used to take years. And that showing the power, the sovereign state of power. Well, we lost Peter. We'll see if he comes back. Oh, here he comes now. Thank you, peter, do you want to continue? Yeah, I'm in the country and my signal is not very good. I don't know if you can hear me. Your last comments were about Meta and the outreach that now hours used to take days and years. Thanks. Please go ahead. Right, so it's an amazing opportunity. Where Twitter? So he's taking maximum leverage and written in the press about being we lost Peter again. Peter, you back there because of my signal, but thanks, appreciate it. So, Roberto, would you like to reflect a little bit in closing today? I see you paying heavy attention to several of the speakers today. So please I'm trying to, I think just a few. I very, very much liked what you mentioned, Alex, about inetwarf individuals and family transitions. Right. This is something that I've been seeing down in Brazil and Latin America. New generations of high net worth families are probably the main source of transformation in the economy. So families coming from agriculture made money there. They're recycling money and they're going into digital startups and globally. So I've been seeing that happening underground. I was just talking with a fund manager who is a colleague yesterday about that. So I found that to be very interesting. In general, I think there's one question and then Ken got started talking about the Global South as the breaks. It's a fruit salad, mangoes, oranges, bananas, et cetera. The Global South is also a very not precise category, right? And especially when you think about the future and population growth, when we compare African Latin America, for instance, there's a big difference. My country, Brazil, the population here is expected to top in 2040 and in Latin America in general in 2058. So the case here, and the case in Latin America is that Latin American countries and my country included, they have not become rich countries, but they are already old countries. So they lost their demographic bonuses in general. And that's the common story for the whole region, right? And the big question that arises from that is where will growth come from? So I think there are three topics here that and this is actually a question was in a call, different group, different discussion with Jerry the other day. And this is something that Jerry and I were having an exchange. What are the future growth and genes for the countries that are coming from behind? It seems that growth models that allow many economies to leapfrog, to move forward, those are not available. Those will not be available for most countries in the Global South. Right. So where will growth come from? Again, the first point is this. In places there are big differences across the globe. There are big differences in the Global South. In the Latin America, the story is the whole region is becoming old without becoming rich. And that poses a big question mark, that poses big social challenges going ahead. The second thing, and this is again related to what in Ken was reflecting on, it's about I think that a key concern for countries in the Global South. In spite of the difference, it's about lifting the constraints. Right. I think it's pretty clear that growth will not come from the outside. If we think about certain countries, even in China, right? Tapping on the US. Market was essential to allow for growth. That will not be the case for Latin America. So I think in more and more countries in Africa and in Latin America, and this is a common thing, they're looking to the region itself and thinking, hey, what can we do to boost growth? Right? What are the concepts, what are the constraints that maybe we can lift? And this connects to some of the conversations that we are seeing around the globe. The de dollarization, wherever. It has very practical implications. I was just reading in the news today in Argentina actually. Right. A whole discussion about something that the president of Brazil, who's a great salesperson, like most politicians, right, managed to whatever to convince Argentinians to buy $500 million in equipment from Brazilian companies to point. Argentina doesn't have us. Dollars to pay for that. Right. So how can constraints be lifted in some way? I think it's like the mood that in spite of the difference, countries in Africa, in Latin America and in other places have in mind, how can we lift some of the constraints? Mexico is an exception. Mexico has an implist growth strategy, and that growth strategy is about connecting with US. And Canada. That's not the case for most of Latin America. Right. That's not feasible. Because of geography? Because of other reasons, but I'll say mostly geography. So where will growth come from? And the third point is, if growth is a key issue, for most of the world, nature is a key issue. And there's a kind of correlation, right? If we think that those that are really behind, they tend to be more naturally endowed, at the same time we're facing climate change, we face a loss of biodiversity. How are all those things playing out? I mentioned to you was, like, two weeks ago with a bunch of fund managers and whatever, construction companies, mining companies down in Brazil talking about carbon. Right? So carbon, the whole idea about expanding the carbon, developing the carbon market is crucial. So I think that as countries in the global south, they think about growth. They're increasingly thinking about how they can solve the conundrum involving growth. And nature answers are not in place yet. Financial models are not in place yet. We know that technology will be essential for that. But maybe the institutions and the financial solutions to make that happen are not in place. Right. So these are some of the reflections. And just to close, I think that Howard touched upon something that's the essential. If we want this to be a positive game for everybody, we need to bring other people. We need to create bridges in the globe, including across generations. I'll stop here. Thank you very much, Roberto. Thank you, everybody. Just a very good interaction today on our sensing of things going on and wishing everybody a great week and see you next week. And, Alvaro, great success in your flight today and a race. So take care, everybody. Bye bye. Thank you so much. Bye bye. Thank you. Bye.

