Speaker A:
Hello, everybody, and welcome to the Midterm Review, where I'm going to briefly go through some of the most important things that I'd like you to remember for the upcoming midterm. A tell is a series of cultural deposits resulting in a mound, right layer upon layer to eventually make basically an ancient city. Ceramic seriation is what we use for relative chronology to identify diagnostic or recognizable traits of pottery so we can find the contemporary periods of occupation. So relative chronology, the layers containing pottery date to the same time relative to each other, not the absolute calendar dates, which are radiocarbon dating, potassium argon dating, death chronology. Those are the scientific ways that we say, here's the year. Whereas in the ceramic serration we can say here's the relative relationship to each other. There are different kinds of archaeological survey. You can do literature search, you can do remote sensing, so on and so forth. Now, archaeology has been a lot of different things in the past. It's been sort of judgmental about different cultures. It's ranked societies and applied morals to societies in various sort of biased ways. But today, the point of archaeology is to be objective, to not compare different groups of how good they are, how successful they were, but rather to understand the localized adaptations that each group needed to develop, survive, and thrive. In other words, for cultural evolution. Processual archaeology is the kind of archaeology that is looking for the universal laws of human behavior. It's in the name the processes of human behavior, often using the economy or ecology to understand what's going on. One of the famous case studies was Carnero looking at environmental circumscription, which is competition over limited resources or scarcity led to state formation. Now, post processual archaeology is kind of the other end of that spectrum where it's really looking not at the universal but at the particular traits of a given society to understand it. Now, cultural evolution itself, there's a few different things that few different ways that we can distinguish between cultural evolution and biological evolution or genetic evolution. In biological evolution, things take a very, very long time to change, whereas in cultural evolution, all it takes is the length of the time of making a decision, right? That's a cultural adaptation. We can change it immediately also, whereas in genetic or biological evolution, change can only go from generation down the next generation. In cultural evolution, everybody can teach each other, so it can go to the side to side, to siblings. Children can teach their parents, their grandparents, so on and so forth. Here are the different ways we understand how the environment plays a role in evolution and cultural adaptation. On one end, you have environmental determinism, which is that the environment determines the outcomes. On the other side, you have cultural determinism, meaning that culture or technology can subjugate anything the environment and then there's everything in between possibleism, which basically means the environment allows a range of possible cultural outcomes, and it's up to the given culture to figure out their own strategy. Here we see culture history. And what are we talking about when we talk about culture history? This is basically a linking of traditions, phylogenetic, meaning looking at the past, the ancestral leading to the later. It's a linking of traditions to reconstruct evolutionary relationships. So in other words, which cultural traits came first? How did they change, and where were they practiced? How were they passed on? Various culture areas where they were practiced. When we look at the archaeology of the state, we see that pristine states eventually developed with no knowledge of statecraft or secondary states. They learned that statecraft from others. And the way to get to a pristine state, and really many cases of states in the past, is chiefly cycling, when multiple chiefs are competing with each other for followers, and then they often do get violent. There's one chief that wins out, and that becomes a leader of a state, like a king or a queen. That's chiefly cycling. There are many different material and behavioral correlates to the phenomenon of the state. We see people nucleating in their settlements. So people are abandoning small villages, coming to bigger settlements that become cities. Monumental construction, craft specialization, not everyone's needed for food production. Writing is a major hallmark. And territorial expansion, for example. All of these are important prerequisite to the state. We have experienced several epidemiological transitions or disease, sort of the evolution of disease, the first one being during the Neolithic Revolution, where people switch to agriculture. They're settling down, more people living closer to each other, and more disease. And then you have the other transitions as well, from a couple hundred years ago with the eradication of most infectious diseases and today where the infectious diseases are mostly coming back. And there's two kind of scholars who look at this from different ways. Our child who said, first people discovered the technology of agriculture, which allowed more food, which allowed the population to increase, and then there's Basra, and she said, no, actually there would have been a big population boom, and then they needed to get more food. And so they adopted agriculture for that reason. Hayden kind of said, well, what does it kind of matter what came first? It's really more about how people are using agriculture and how does it really impact their social organization in many ways. And he pretty much argued that you have accumulative personalities or chiefs, and they're amassing surplus food to compete for followers with other chiefs. His evidence are that there are not really bulk subsistence items that are the first domestic hits, but rather luxury items like gourds to ferment, alcohol for drinking, and hot peppers and avocados. How do you get people that are not related to each other to cooperate? Well, Charles Stanish argues that across all of these different societies, you can see the same things playing out feasting, ritual and taboo. And here we see the Fertile Crescent, this nice, well watered strip from the Persian Gulf up through Mesopotamia, across Anatolia, down the Levant and down the Nile. The earliest agriculture was not people realizing that, hey, these seeds inside of these fruits will grow. It was more that they were protecting wild species that eventually became domesticated. Some of the Neolithic trade goods during this Neolithic revolution or emergence of agriculture were also bitumen and shells and copper ores, obsidian, some really important lithic and mineral resources. The Tuthians were the world's first segmentary villagers, the first people to settle down, and they already had some evidence for hierarchy due to the different amounts of grave goods. Then you can look at something like Jericho, where people were cooperating to build such a huge wall system without evidence for hierarchy. This was a sort of communal based project. We look at Chattel Hoyek here, another big early site. We see that there were not roads, actually. It wasn't really an urban grid. People built their houses close to each other, though, because they were worried about perhaps wild animal attacks, among other things. Secondary products revolution animals, providing not only meat, which is a primary product, but milk and cheese, wool and fibers. Writing was invented independently in three places sumer, China and mesoamerica. Writing can be either pictographic or phonetic meaning, showing signs representing concepts or signs representing sounds. The earliest writing in the late Uruk period was about record keeping, not other reasons initially. Only later on were there other reasons, like literature and things like that. Cylinder seals, an extremely important early artifact of the state, were used to protect private property by sealing jars and doors, notarizing legal transactions associated with private ownership. Agriculture became firmly established in the Neolithic period. Eventually, later on, you only get pottery. So first you have agriculture without pottery, and then later on you get pottery invented some thousands of years of agriculture before pottery, we see that some early Mesopotamian cultures were building in different materials. They're using mud bricks, they're using plaster, and they're using stones. At a redu, the first city, we see the most common monumental type and the most enduring is the temple. Over 16 layers. And a redu was in touch with many other cultures, including a Tepegawara, where they share an architectural tradition. So we understand that they're in touch due to that kind of material architecture and building. A major hallmark of the Near Eastern state is the tripartite temples and showing that there is a priestly part of society in tandem with the development of more of the royal class. Another thing that Near Eastern cultures share is a flood story. We have uDNA Pichtim in the EPA of Gilgamesh, similar to the biblical Noah, the only survivor of the flood at Uruk. We also have a Scribal class that are the ones in charge of monitoring what's going in and what's coming out of the surplus silos and they have an archive to keep track of it. And we see that they show us a lens into Uruk life. We have hunting and fishing, we have crafts, storage, all of these different important aspects of early Uruk society. Also among the Uruk and Sumerians, we find that lion hunting became very important symbol of kingship and that continued for thousands of years after that. We looked a little bit at the epic of Gilgamesh and we see that Enkidu is seen as nature needing to be tamed. It is basically the city versus the wild. Gilgamesh being the city king and Kidu being this man of the wild who must be tamed for urban society and civilization to thrive. That is the narrative of Gilgamesh. The Uruk people, also the elites commemorated their power through this type of artifact, such as the work of Ace, where they had a different hierarchy shown through the placement, through the registers. On top is the most important, in the middle is the laborers, underneath the elites, and then at the very bottom is the livestock, and then eventually the plants. The natural world. We see that Ebla, an important Levantine city in the northern Levant. Modern Syria was already very much in touch with Mesopotamia from an early stage such as here, where they have the same kind of material and depicted iconography as the royal tombs of Ur. Here we see the Tomb of Scorpion in Pre dynastic Egypt, showing already strong connections to the Levant from all that wine coming in. And also we see that they're linked to Afghanistan, maybe Iran, through Lapis lazali and other luxury vessels. We find that Narmer was the fair that unified Egypt by there had been two basically chieftains in Upper Egypt and Lower Egypt. And ultimately Narmeir of Upper Egypt conquered Lower Egypt and unified the whole country there. It became a country at that time. The Egyptians were very plugged into the Levant as well, as we see through the Biblos Run, where there are direct maritime relations that way, not just overland, but also over the Mediterranean. And so here we have another lot of important information about the relationship between Egypt and the Levant. Specifically that we have rebellions perhaps taking place. We have conquest, but we also have trading and we also have military and administrative buildings. So it kind of runs the gamut of trade and administration and warfare urbanism in the Levant and really arrives in about the early Bronze Age. Two, we have large fortified towns and we see, importantly, two major kinds of cities. We have one where you basically get a lot of different gates and not a huge fortification, showing that there's not a strong central authority in another model where you have one gate and a street grid and it's clearly sort of a planned community and city. And so these are these different models. Some succeeded and some didn't. The difference between the Sumerians and the Akadians is pretty much that the Sumerians, although they certainly employed some violence, they didn't really have a lot of conquest where they're trying to hold distant territories. But the akadians did. That was how they very much different from the Sumerians. They were a military empire. Ebla was eventually destroyed by the Akadians, by many other tells across the Levant, succumbed to a sort of less immediate but equally as devastating end of total abandonment or destruction from the early Bronze Age four. And what we see is that all of these Amorites are canaanites. The people in the Levant at that time are abandoning their cities and they're being pastoral. Nomads, that facilitates the spread of knowledge and eventually that results in the adoption of this cutting edge technology of bronze. What we see is that eventually there is after the early Bronze Age four, there is an urban renaissance in the Middle Bronze Age and the cities are reoccupied. The main hallmarks of the early Bronze Age four are this big reduction in population, the abandonment of the tells, severe deforestation, but also the introduction of bronze royal tombs of Ur. We find a lot of information about the world's first royalty. We see that they are sacrificing people for their funerary rituals. We see that banqueting was very important on some of these seals. We find that liars indicated court music as well going on. So we have feasting, we have music and we have sacrifice of attendance. These are all things that are part of the early royalty. And here are those liars indicating the music. See the use of lapis lazily, gold and shell. And clearly a banquet and feasting was important. Here we see the standard of boar showing the Lugal, the big man on top. And we have also the military shown donkey driven chariots is an important part. As well as captives here in the steely of the vultures, we find defeated enemies being eaten off the field, or just anyone who died being eaten by vultures off the field. We find some of these iconic images that the Sumerians and the Akadians use, such as the battle net as well, and the taking of captives, more battle net. So we have these kind of images repeating themselves now, the Amorites, the canaanites, these people from the Bronze Age Levant eventually are striking out and settling elsewhere. There are climate refugees, they're seeking better pastures and they encroach on Egypt and Mesopotamia and they were written about in all these sources. The Sumerians, the Canadians, Egyptians, all were concerned about these Amorites Middle Bronze Age Jerusalem. We see that one of the most important aspects of their urbanization was protecting the water source in the law code of Hammurabi. We find that there is a biblical principle reflected here, an eye for an eye. So we get punishments that are going from only monetary punishments, such as in Ur three. But by the time of the Old Babylonians, they also are employing physical punishments using connections between Egypt and Uruk pretty early on in the pre dynastic period where the Egyptians are basically employing these Elamite or sumerian symbols we also find that the Amorites are, as I mentioned, moving into Egypt. They're sort of peacefully interacting at first but eventually they are less welcome. The Benihassan tomb painting gives us good evidence for when that is happening. Amorite encroachment eventually the Amorites take over Egypt in the second intermediate period and they establish their capital there at Avaris. The Hebrews. Now this is a later iron age term for what had been Amorites and canaanites in the bronze age and the etymology or the linguistic origin of that term Hebrew or EVRI is there's a little bit of a debate? Some think that it relates to the Canadian term apiru or hairu which are essentially sort of dusty donkey nomads. And there's also maybe from eber or they come across the rivers from distant lands to settle and that is all I have gone through. Now, on each slide I talked about sort of the most important things that I'd like you to retain and I wish you good luck.

