Noto. Eric so Noto is calling in from Australia right now. Outdoor. It's not that cold. It's about 20 degrees Celsius right now.Breezy yeah, it's better than Tokyo. 40 degrees Celsius.It so it's about 11:00. It's about 940 right now. Okay, so you are on the West Side of Australia, right? West Side Australia. And can Oh, you're Eastern Australia.Eastern Australia. Oh, eastern. I'm sorry. Eastern. I see a lot of crocodiles here.Nanny and Sarah went on to the Great Barrier to snorkel this morning.They came back with a wonderful experience. But they were shivering cold and the colony was so strong.They're not used to the cold.I was reading in a car by the sea. So it was a very nice day, all day reading. And the food is very nice. I haven't had a bad experience in Australia last 2030 years, but food is much, much better these days. So you two haven't had your talk about net assessment yet, have you?Not yet.I have to figure out how to talk with Nishi San. But this is the summer I started, so it's kind of difficult for me to catch Nishi San because of the two newborn babies. Grandbabies, you should add. Yeah, grandbabies. Not his babies.You never know.Acupacino. What's the other guy? Italian guy.Acupacino. What's the other guy? The godfather?I had no idea. I don't know. You're a movie expert.Robot. Dennis? No, not Dennis. Anyway, Alex, today, can you make some comments on the AI and this thing that Peter just put out on the guardrails and breaking the guardrails and then also this Korean thing on resistance.Room temperature. I have a short comment about that. Yes, room temperature. I don't know. Magnets.Yeah, essentially a very strong magnet.There's a very I think this presumed superconductor is really something that everybody is looking at. Well, but your point is that because of the generative AI capabilities, the Chinese will sort this out. Yes, I suspect that's because I heard that. But no one wants to write anything to prove it. Right.Well, part of that is they don't want to give it away. Yeah, well, it's just now just to let you know also that net assessment. We have an AI tutor right now, so anybody who is learning the class reading from the textbook can also ask questions from the AI. AI will respond based on the textbook. This is not an analysis, but an analysis will be done by another AI, which is what?Fungi is perfecting. At least the tutor is up. So it's basically like a chatbot. So in that situation, it's like when we are in the class with Ellen, it will be Ellen teaching assistant to help to answer all the very basic questions. Yeah, so so you net assessment smart chat bot or net assessment prepared?Chat bot.Yeah.I'm having a hard time teaching those older bodies of people Nishi san is younger than Phil, but Nishi san is having a hard time understanding what scenera assessment is and seeing other people. Would it be nice if we could do, like, maybe last 1015 minutes of our call any time just to do some sort of net assessment round? We thought of talking about whatever, something going on, but we have materialists that we're less and we're preparing for some people.I'm also prepared to think through the thinking based on them and it might be a good idea for you or Phil, maybe you whenever you are there and Alex just becomes sort of moderating all those crowds to say, hey, you know what? These things are not half an hour just for preparing. Well, actually, Fong and Alex have already done that. It's just that we haven't published it yet. But each week, the three of us work together on notes using algorithms to help with notes.But the algorithm does a summary, generative AI summary of the whole call. Can you do that? No, I've already done about two pages. It also generates questions based on the various topics we discuss. We're already well into that.I just haven't published it yet because we're all sort of tweaking it and fine tuning it. But basically what you're saying already exists. Okay. So a more efficient way to do it, rather than take up our 90 minutes together time would when we're all ready, we'll just start publishing the summary and the questions based on generative AI. I think that's the it really helps you frame what you've been asking, right?Hey Jonathan, are you still in Tel Aviv or someplace? You look like you're at the beach. I'm the empire of Portugal. I'll give you a little you are always naked, it seems like, but here we are going to be able to are you going to be able to send us your report from the conference in Israel today?Jonathan? I'm going to listen today. Okay. Can you hear me? Yes, we can hear you.Yeah. You see, they won't let me all be right. Yeah. I have to stay inside the hotel. Okay.Once I go outside by the pool, I lose the Wi Fi, so I'll stay inside. Alright, so you can do your report at the conference, you can do your report at the conference next week, then. That's fine. Yeah, well, no, we better do it today, because next week I'm in the Arctic of Norway on a hike. Okay.Alright, well, stand by. Will do it today. Okay. What time? Toward the end, right?Yeah, more towards the second half. Okay. All right, I'll get ready. Thank you. Be brief.It's very good. Mr. Gow. Good evening. Good morning, Phil.We have a nice man grant Noto is in Australia and Jonathan is in Portugal. Oh, Australia. It's cool, Australia. It's very nice out here. So which area of Australia can eastern Australia?What's the time in Australia now?Afternoon. Good morning Admiral, Hey Admiral, Hi. Hey.Good morning, good afternoon and good evening. NATO? Yes, NATO's calling in from Cannes, Australia. Holy method. Jonathan is in Portugal.The rest of us are normal. We are very global.I hope you're well. We are enjoying this nice weather. It's 20 deg here and I called Tokyo and the daytime was 40 degrees. So this is much more like a utopia here. Good.You know, every time I see Jonathan is somehow naked. Well, he's either on the beach in Israel or now he's in Portugal. So anyways, smart man. Well, you know, I lived a hard life.You look like it. Yeah. The portuguese people have something to offer. They're very happy. And you look at their history.They've had the longest treaty between the UK without it being broken. Since the 14th century, they've had a treaty ongoing with the UK. That's pretty good.Maybe we can learn something from them. Admiral Miller and I had some good visits to Portugal.Are you in the algarve? What's that? Are you down south? Yes, we're in the Algarve at Ballet de Lobo Pinto de Lago. Yeah, it's about a ten minute drive from Faro.It's a nice place down there. Yes, it's 5 hours door to door from London.Hey Jesper, Good evening. I assume you're in Japan. So it's evening. Great to see you.Yep. Good to see you. Must be hot down.Know what it is? That means reversion after a cold February and March. Jerry, you're in Ohio, I guess you have and Kim is with you," he said. Right? He's coming.He's not here yet. Okay, great. Victor, good morning and I'll get back to you, but I look forward to seeing you this coming weekend. I am down in Dallas Thursday and Friday. 100 degrees during the day, 106 today, but fairly dry heat, not impossible.I'm in Kans, Australia.In Virginia. We should get our last day of heat wave today, so we'll see. Ohio has cooled down.Good. What's the temperature there?Well, you know what? I've got to go out and look again. 74, something like that. Fahrenheit. Hey Tong,Are you in England now? Yes. Hello? Can you hear me? Yeah.Are you in England now? Yes, I'm in Cambridge. Oh, great. I hope I can use another computer. Just no camera.Oh, that's fine. But I hope your trip went well. Great to hear from you, it's great to see you well. Thank you. Roberto, good afternoon.Good morning. Good morning, Phil. Good morning, everybody.Good evening Kota, Also, Jason. Good afternoon.Good morning.No, you're on twice. I don't know what you're up to, but just so you know, Jesper, it's great to see you. And why don't we begin, if you don't mind, Jesper. Because of activity, especially in the Japanese Bank of Japan this week. Also, thank you very much for seeing Paul Atkins and the colleagues from the US.Thank you very much. But Jesper, if you wouldn't mind just giving us a quick from the perspective in Tokyo, what's going on economically. That's very interesting and thank you, Phil, and I just want to keep this very well known. The most important thing is that the economy is continuing to accelerate. There have been several new data points where domestic business investment is continuing to pick up.There was a revision up from a previous estimate of plus three to plus 13% growth. And there's more and more CEOs here talking about onshoring on bringing some factories back to Japan. So the bottom line is that the economy, the private sector, is on a very firm footing. Business investment continues to accelerate. And as a result of that, the bank of Japan is now beginning to take first steps to normalize its monetary policy.Now, what's very, very important is you're better off focusing on what they did not change compared to what they changed. They did not change that. They have a reserve to buy ¥12 trillion, which is about 2% of the stock market capitalization, ¥12 trillion in ETFs. They kept that reserve right there, the negative 0.1% policy rate. Japan still runs its anchor short term interest rates at slightly negative rates.There's no change to that. And on top of that, buying corporate bonds in the corporate bond market, as well as in the real estate investment trust market, everything is unchanged. They will continue to do that. So the only thing that they did is they increased the cap of the ten year bond yield. And you may remember the ten year bond yield was capped at 0.5%, and now effectively, it's going to be capped at 1%.But nothing on the front end of the yield curve is going to change. So it's a very clever way to let the market find where for longer duration bonds, there is going to be a problem. Now, there's a lot of people who go, oh my God, this means the Japanese are going to stop buying US. Treasuries. No, they won't.There is a modest increase here in the allocation of government bonds that private institutions and life insurance companies are doing. But overall, this is not going to have an impact on the asset allocation as long as it goes global. The final point in terms of a negative impact on this enormous amount of government debt that you have, I mean, obviously the financing cost for the treasury is going to be increasing slightly. The Ministry of Finance itself estimates that a one percentage point increase in the cost of debt would cost them about ¥4 trillion, which is just shy of 1% of GDP in terms of additional interest expense. But that's exactly why Governor UDA is in absolutely no hurry.And that's my final point. There was a very strong accord between the previous Governor Coroda, and the previous prime minister, Abe. It's a very strong accord that the central bank, the treasury and the politicians would all be working together. The accord is still very much intact. So the bottom line is the domestic economy keeps on accelerating, which is good news.The normalization process at the long end of the yield curve has started, but it's going to be at least another 15 to 18 months before the short end of the interest rate structure starts to change. When that happens, then the impact on global markets and particularly the exchange rate is going to start to be pronounced. So for now, I don't think much of a significant impact. Thank you very much. Jesper Lewis, you wrote quite a bit about this in Chat last week.If you can connect it now to other areas of Asia that you're seeing. Well, first of all, Jesper, thanks. 25 years in road shows with Chemo Sabi, just so you know, for the group, Jesper and I have done road shows with clients where I put Jesper on a motorbike to get them, where most investment bankers would get six meetings a day. I put Jesper on a motorbike and we got eight meetings out of the day. So Jesper and I are all about productivity and it's good to hear his comments.I think I am certainly watching the very strong alignment between what's happening in Dollar Rimimbi and Dollar Yen. There's a very strong correlation between the two and I wouldn't be surprised if China has bought a lot of dollars against the yen and will be now going the other way. That's just my personal opinion. In general terms, what's interesting to hear from Jesper is what we're seeing in the United States and the GDP numbers that we saw earlier this week, particularly in terms of investment spending, which is one of the things that is definitely a byproduct of Biden's Inflation Reduction Act and his Chips Act. There's a lot of onshoring demand bringing corporations, international corporations who want to be part of the American dream.They're having to build plants and equipment in the United States. American corporations are realizing the call to arms on the Nationalist Front. They're bringing back factories and stuff. What's interesting is the discussion about recession, you're starting to see GDP numbers, as I said, in the United States, which were stronger than expected and being built on real stuff. Investment spending is the highest that we've seen since 1981.And I think that that's quite significant. And Jasper is relating a story that relates to Japan and that Japan in terms of its economy is certainly doing well. The Chinese are certain there's been a call to arms in China. We're starting to see a number of measures. Not a very clear, single, unitary plan, but certainly a call to arms.I think the new Chinese Central Bank governor is somebody that you do not mess with. And it's very clear that the same kind of alignment that Jesper is talking about is between government corporations and the bank of Japan. There's certainly a certain element. The bottom line for me is that if you look at markets in general, there's a lot of pessimism, particularly around the US stock market. If I look at my market feeds and the people that I speak with, everybody's looking for the downside or it's really cheap to hedge downside right now, but nobody's talking about the potential upside.Citigroup has just revised its upside forecast for the S.P.P. for this year and for next year. I've basically been saying, I think Howard and I were on a call maybe four or five months ago and were basically saying, know, through all the noise and stuff, the picture was an optimistic one. The bottom line for what I take listening to Jesper, seeing what I'm seeing in China, seeing the impact of what's happening in the United States, is that there is a buoyant environment for stock markets globally. And that would be really turbocharged if the dollar continues to move lower. I think it's really significant just to highlight some bait.I see you brought some bait. Sorry, Josh. So basically what we saw was a very interesting equation in Europe this week. We had quite a dovish ECB press conference. We had the ECB's Constancio, who was a highly regarded member of the ECB, basically saying that there was no need for further interest rate hikes in Europe.The euro dollar had a big reversal during the week and it's almost taken that back. The simple point I'm making here is that despite the Europeans' best efforts to try and take some of the steam out of a strong Euro, as far as they regard it, it hasn't worked. And that indicates that if the Euro can't be reversed here with the efforts that the ECB are making, the story of buoyant stock markets, good for the growth environment and a dollar that might continue to roll over, that will be really significant for global growth upside and stock market upside. And if that happens, I don't think people are really positioned for that. So that's my commentary.Thanks everybody. Thank you, Lewis. Howard, you're about to venture off on quite a fascinating trip, which, if you could just review it quickly with us, but overall, the economic picture now, just before you travel, what are you seeing? Thank you. Well, I think Lewis said it quite well.We really have come back. And if the US political process does not result in Trump getting back into office or preferably not even running, I think that the economic recovery is going to continue really strongly. I still don't quite understand this fixation by Jerome Powell on 2% inflation. Because I lived for 40 or 50 years, we all did, with 3% inflation being the norm, and things were just fine. And by keep trying to push it down all the way to 2%, they have the possibility of pushing john Alton, could you mute they have pushing things down a bit, but other than that, I'm very encouraged by what we've seen in the know, the stock market.Unbelievable performance in the stock market, which is generally a six month leading indicator of things in the economy. And that's saying that as the primary season in the US gets started next January, February, we're going to have a really good economy, a continued good economy. So all that makes me very excited. I am excited about my trip around the world with the National Geographic and Wall Street Germ people. We are going to Kyoto to steal Singapore's ulang Battor, the Gobi Desert, Samarkand, Talin Helsinki, Lapland, Reykjavik and parts of Iceland, so it's quite a trip around the world.I'm only adding two countries to my hundred and one countries that I've been to already. We'll get two more. But I'm excited to see it and I'll hopefully see a few people along the way if I can. I'm trying to figure out how to get together with Tushin and folks in Mongolia. We'll see if it may work out, maybe not.But I think from the economic point of view, my partner, Eduardo Savarin in Singapore, who is one of the largest shareholders in Meta, Facebook, watched his stock in that company go down from 300 to about $80 a share in the last twelve months. He was resolute and said, no, this is great company, they're going to get it back together and here we're gone. If you bought Facebook at a low a year ago at 80, it's now 325 forex for one of the biggest companies in the world. It's just amazing how resilient the stock market has been in all of this. And even in the bitcoin world, Coinbase has come back strongly.So a lot of those pieces of the economy, as measured by the stock market, are doing very well. But even more importantly, we still have almost no employment in the US. Some of that's a result of no immigration, so there's not enough people to take jobs, but we're definitely seeing a very strong job market for people. Anyone who wants a job in the US can now have one, and that is a roaring economy. I'll stop there.Thank you very much, Howard, and we look forward to hearing from you during and after the trip. For sure. Roberto, would you like to make some comments regarding developments in South America? Thank you.Hey Phil, I don't have much to add in relation to South America. I think that let's say from a Brazilian standpoint, one thing that's kind of surprising to Brazil is that the economy is moving forward against some of the expectations that were around a few months. There's some elections coming up in Argentina and other places for sure. Peru continues to be a very complex place with protests on the streets yesterday. And as some of you may have heard, they had six different presidents in six years.So it's a very unstable situation here in that country, but I really don't have much to add in addition to this at this point. Thanks a lot, Roberto. So Alex from Southeast Asia, one area that we're focusing on of course, is Thailand. And just this morning there is the great possibility that former Prime Minister Tucksin could in fact return. But if you could just put this into perspective overall from Southeast Asia and the east.Thank you. Sure. I'll basically share a few things, just not just about Thailand but also Cambodia, because I just came back from the election observation down there. Now let's talk about Thailand. The situation is very interesting and very dynamic.Peter being a western educated person, is pretty much well liked by the people. And in this previous election he has done very, very well. In fact, he has one more share than Putai, which is the Taxin's party. So in a normal situation, Peter would likely be the Prime Minister. Unfortunately, the Senate is controlled by the former military and they are basically blocking his bid for the job.So after twice then what happened is that he's even now disqualified because he owns some minority share in one of the dormant companies. Now by right it shouldn't be a major issue unless somebody brought a whistle because quite a number of them, they basically just transfer their share and ownership to their relatives. I think Peter may have overlooked it and didn't do that. So in this current situation he may be disqualified. And that also means that there is probably nobody in his party that is good and qualified for being a Prime Minister.So on August 4 they're going to have a re-so-called vote for a new Prime Minister. It's likely that there will be someone from Pretai, somebody from a senior from the property market and he's probably pretty well respected and there's a good chance that he will be. Of course it is the second person that will be the younger daughter of Tatsin. And Tatsin has more or less, I think, orchestrated and planned this whole move because just before the election, Taksin was meeting with the two daughters. One was also a former Prime Minister who was being ousted and this young last small youngest daughter in Singapore.They have discussions about what they are supposed to do, incidents where when you start connecting all the news and stories coming out, Tapsin will be going back to Thailand. He has been in exile, self exile, for many, many years, I think more than ten years. Immediately the Justice Minister mentioned that if Taxin were to ask for the Royal Pardon within 24 hours, he may upon his serving his sentence. That means that when he can't go back, he's supposed to go to jail. But if he asks for his Royal Pardon within 24 hours, there is a window for him to ask for a pardon.The signal is pretty clear that he will likely get the royal pardon. What is going to happen to the Thai overall politics is quite unpredictable right now because that the Pita Move forward party may become an opposition while Pitai can ruling party. So that turned the whole thing totally very different because that Thai being a party is supposed to be all about being opposition, opposing the democrat, the incumbent elites. But now they are going to be the ruling party. So the overall dynamic of the whole thing can be very different and the existing elite may not be able to manage the current situations.We will be closely watching this situation and trying to understand it. Now, switching over to talk about Cambodia and the Cambodia situation is that before the election usually the situation is always that everything gets sorted out before the election. And so the election will always appear to be fair and free and just so being an election observer usually we don't get to see anything. But for this particular situation it's very interesting because before we went the major opposition parties got themselves disqualified. All right?So when you get disqualified, that means that you will no longer be one of the parties. So overall there's altogether originally 19 party contest but the left becomes 18. Now the opposition basically campaigns for a spoil vote, which also means that they would like people to just go in and anyhow mark on the voting paper so that the toy vote can become like voting for the opposition. This is one of the things that CPP was quite worried about. Now that we're down there, there's a few very interesting observations that we're looking at.Number one, what is the number of spoiled votes? So we were in the counting center, we were seeing the whole observe the whole process of it and we noticed that the spoil is only less than 3%. Maybe give and take about 3%. Now that indicates that okay, overall voting total participation rate is 84.3%, which is pretty high compared to most of the western civilization, all right. Because their voting is compulsory in Asia, in Southeast Asia especially.So you talk about 84.3% of people vote as only about 3% of them are spoiled and the incumbent basically got more than 70% of the vote. Now what that means is that there aren't a lot of people really supporting the opposition and the play is very simple. The opposition god knows that he is not able to win anything. Instead of getting two 3% is an embarrassment. Might as well just get yourself what it's called disqualified.You look better because you look like a matter in that sense. So that is some of our observations and our conclusion now is this is a free and fair election most of the time there's a lot of cohesion and all this thing. Now in fact, the overall security forces have increased more than five times since the last one. But we don't see a lot of security people around us. In fact, that's what it's called.About 100 meters away is the nearest you will see a security guy and that is a rule. And another interesting rule is that the day before election and the election day there is no alcohol and sales. By law that means that no one's supposed to get drunk. You can drink at home if you have some sock power with or you drink in your own hotel but no public sales of alcohol. In fact, it's so strict that we can't even get a cocktail in the hotel lounge.Now, that is by itself the standard in Asia. I think something is good because that you prevent unnecessary so called riots, right? That is something that we are afraid of. In fact, I think the police and the government are more afraid of the election than the people. When you observe people wise, you say a very interesting phenomenon is that number one, people queue up early.The ballot center is supposed to open at 07:00 but 06:00 people really queue up. As an election observer we are still deli deli and kind of late. Okay? We are only there about 615 to do our duty to check the ballot box and the people are already there. And the most important theory is that people smile and people dress up for the election.All right? So they are not somebody that thinks that they don't want to go to vote. They really love to go and they want to exercise their right. We can see that people are feeling that pretty, what's that called? I'm not afraid of the situation.I can say that they are free and pretty well aware of the situation. In fact, they love to take pictures that show that with the delivery bang and put on their fingers and then they take a picture of it to show that they have voted. Now, overall, our observation is that the key thing to look at the whole situation is that the media may be biased. All right? The media may be biased, especially what's it called, non comma.That means non-local language media. And we can see that is that you can create that kind of impression about Cambodia. Now, the other thing I observe in Cambodia also very interesting is that Hansen being the strongman, as you want to call him, is the Prime Minister. He will step down in a few months' time after the election, probably sometime in late August or even September after the result is fully published. Now he's got to step down and pass on his PM position to his son.Homan is somebody that is trained in the west, in West Point, so educated in Harvard, et cetera. Now, we expect that he will be very much in western favor or have western thinking. But from our interaction with him, I think he's. It's still very Asian thinking. The presence of China is very much in Cambodia.We can see that a lot of construction is being helped by China. And in fact, one of the things that I noticed and I like is because there's a lot of Chinese restaurants down there, one street, we just travel about 100 meters. I counted six Chinese restaurants. And those restaurants are not the type of restaurants that I think Cambodians we eat in. So you can see the Chinese presence very strongly down there.People are very friendly in that environment. I would say that this is something that somebody that they trust in that sense. So now in transition also that we found that not just the Prime Minister is going to change, but all the Oga, majority of God. I think about 90% of the Oga will also step down. So Mina will have his new team.A new thing to do now and then again is that during this period of time, we do not know what he will do. But economic development is one of the very key things on his mind. So through the short conversation we had that he was very open, he's very much into the democratic process and he wants to basically build the economy. It's not easy for Cambodia because at least this is typically somewhere in the center and they don't have a very huge population. But I think they all look forward to having the high speed rail development and eventually that will connect to all the development.All right. So now another site observation that I have during this particular observation trip is that because the observer group comes from all over the place, they have quite a lot of intelligent groups rendered as think tanks down there. We counted about 20% of them. But that is not a major concern because these are the people who are constantly at all this event. What is interesting is that the Southeast Asian observer, which is made up of a lot of young people, so we have ASEAN Youth Alliance down there.And through the conversation, one of the things that keeps popping up is how can we make sense of this chaotic time with everything happening around the world? How can we young people make sense of what is going on? We had a conversation until late at night about development, about the world, and everybody holding some of their opinions and views. And constantly the team is basically that the young people need to have the ability to think, to figure out what is going on in this world. I'll stop by here and get back to you, Phil.Thank you. Alex Devinda. Sri Lanka has been quite the focus just this past week of things going on. You had a visit from a member of the Polar Bureau of the Chinese Communist Party. You had the French President, Macron, and you had the Japanese Foreign Minister all in this US.You then had the president Wikimeshinge go to Delhi for his first state visit with Prime Minister Modi. So some perspective on what is all going on. We'd appreciate it. Thank you. Thank you, Phil.There's a lot of connecting the dots in the Indo-Pacific that got reflected in Sri Lanka this past week and the past two weeks with Vikram Singh's visit to Delhi and Macron's stop on his way from the Pacific back to Paris. He was in Vadavatu, Papua New Guinea, making a refueling stop, which led to a bilateral meeting at the airport in Colombo. And at the same time, the Japanese Foreign Minister was visiting as well. So there's a lot of crisscrossing of dignitaries and substantive discussions on issues surrounding the Indo-Pacific, as much as the specifics of how Sri Lanka digs itself out of the debt crisis it has found itself in for the past year. The significance of President Macron's stopover in Colombo was that France is the fourth largest creditor to the Sri Lankan government, and he also hosts the Paris Club Secretariat that hosts the discussions and negotiations between government creditors and the government, the sovereign government.And therefore the role that France plays in this process is critical and was significantly underscored in the press releases that were issued after Macron stopped. The Chinese Polit Bureau members' visit as well was significant in terms of how China is going to play its role in the debt renegotiation process. There have been interactions between the governors of the central banks on how to proceed, because China is not part of the Paris Club Forum on debt renegotiations, so it'll have to play an adjunct role in this process. So much going on. The Japanese foreign minister was traveling from Colombo to Africa to Ethiopia, Uganda and South Africa.There was also a significant meeting in South Africa. BRICS National Security Advisors meet for the first time. So there are a lot of overlapping political, diplomatic, security and economic trends that are reverberating throughout the Indo-Pacific region. Also, regarding the announcement yesterday that President Biden will host the Prime Minister and President of the Korean and Japanese leaders on August 18. The Pacific Islands have been getting a lot of attention from the US.With Secretary Blinken and Secretary of Defense visiting the region as well. There's such a great deal of activity going on. Where it settles and where it hits will be worth monitoring. Thank you, Phil. Thank you, Devenda.Dimitri, last week it appeared you were mobile, you were in and out, and I was hoping to call on you last week. If you don't mind, I'll call you now last week. My question to you is if you have any comments, because you do work for a major energy company in Russia on climate change, the Cop 28 coming up, this sort of thing because of our discussion last week on climate and environmentals. But overall, I think we're always interested in giving us some of your perspective on the ground in Russia, just the way you see things right now. Dimitri, please go ahead.Dear colleagues, Yeah, I would like to start with some news from Russia. Of course you know about this Russia Africa summit, which is a really important event for Russia and I guess for Africa also. So it is the second Russia-Africa summit. The first one was held in 2019 in Sochi.And so right now, it is really interesting to see how different media reflect how they show these events.If you read some, I don't know, pro Russian newspapers, you can read this one. Like when the heads of states and governments visited or attended this summit. And if you read some liberal media, you can read this one. Like 38 out of 54 countries haven't sent their presidents to this event. So it is like all the same.But it depends how you show this. But of course, we would like to understand how it is in reality without any speculations, without any so and why it is a really important event for Russia. Because, of course, Russia would like to show that it is not isolated, that Russia has some international ties, and it is a really good chance to show that. And yeah, I guess that, of course, if we compare the first summit with this one, with the second one, of course we can see that fewer heads of states at this event. But anyway, I would say that we cannot say that it is Putin's failure or something.It looks more like Putin's or Russia's success, in my opinion, because almost half of the wait, we have 48 delegations from 48 countries out of 54 African countries. So it means that almost all African countries participated in this event and several important outcomes from this summit. There is cooperation on security, of course. We also have to say that Moscow writes off debts of more than $23 billion for several African countries. Also a really important thing around this grain deal, because you know that Russia suspended this grain initiative after an attack on crime and bridge.Russia will provide free deliveries of 25,000 to 50,000 tons of grain to six countries. I guess, a potent step to show that Russia would cooperate with some African countries. And that, of course, is how Russia would like to show that.Okay, I would say the Western media would like to show Russia as a really angry state, which just suspended this grain initiative. And after that, a lot of African countries would have problems with food security. And now Russia showed that Russia would solve this problem and that Russia suspended this initiative only to stop these military activities around this area. Russia also signed Memorandums of Understanding with the African Development Organization and Economic Community of Central African States. And a really important thing is also cooperation in the education sphere because a lot of African students enrolled in Russian universities and they started here in Russia talking about the summit.I guess there are all outcomes and a really interesting and really important event that Shrigu met with the North Korean leaders also several days ago and they decided to make better or to increase their military cooperation. And also it is the second really important step to show to the whole world that Russia has some international cooperation. And of course, we understand why only the head of space visited this summit because right now, for African countries or other countries, it's really difficult to take some sites. And to be honest, I think that some states, they cannot understand what side to take. Which side to take because on the one hand, we see that Russia is against the whole world.On the other hand, we can see that the counter offensive probably failed. Of course, right now they started the second wave and we will see the results, but the first wave wasn't successful anyway. All countries would like to take the side of who won this war, and we don't know who will be the winner in this situation. That's why some of these states decided not to show anything, not to take any sides. And this is, I guess, it's all from my side.Thank you so much. Thank you. Dimitri and Kim, I see that you're with Jerry today in Ohio. Great to see you following on with what Dimitri just presented and others. And just this morning, Bloomberg published an interesting map that shows more of a straight line right along the equator, almost from Guinea to Sudan, of conflict, which you've basically been telling us about for months.And of course, the very serious situation in Niger this week. So, Kim, if you wouldn't mind to make some comments. Thank you. Alright, thank you. Yes, I'm visiting Ohio, so I'll check on Nigeria and stop by to say hello.I make an effort to visit all our colleagues and this call whenever I'm in the city that I think they are there to get a face to face of our friends. So I'm glad to meet Nigeria again this morning. For Kulita in Niger this week, at least for some of us from Africa who watch Africa, it wasn't a surprise. And it's very likely that many more will follow, if not immediately in the near future.And come your your audio is breaking up a bit there, Jerry.The audio is not good, Jerry. Okay. Shows where they put it now. Yeah, it seems better now. Go ahead.Okay. Is it better now? Yes, please go ahead. Is that better? Yes, it is.Yes. Okay. I'm sorry. Yeah.Yes.What is in common with these countries that are having councils is that they are all former French colonies. When I first joined this group, two presences of France in Africa and the effect of France in Africa, I mentioned that the Asian North is looking wealthier and more advanced in everything and the darker south is looking less advanced. It's not a matter of capabilities or innate human differences. Global policy is purposeful by those who rule the globe. In Africa, they see that as France being the main corporation on their underdevelopment.France supposedly left these countries decolonized in the 60s. But if I give you a little anecdote in the last eight years, I've worked a lot in these countries, in the university system and certain institutions. And when you go there, there's something that the French call agents, French agents under their minister of Foreign Affairs, ministers of cooperation all over these countries. When the French implant their agents almost jerry and Kim, the audio is degraded again.No, the audio is in every office is there no questions asked. The countries have no right of refusal.I'm sorry. Is it better now? It's better now. Please go ahead. Is that better?Yeah. Yes. Maybe you could cut the video.Bill, can you hear us? Yes, I can hear you clearly, Jerry. Okay, if we run into problems again, we'll back off and join a little later. Okay? But let's see how this is okay, let's try to continue.Okay, I think we'll let Jerry, Ann and Kim resolve it. Why don't we get back to you, Jerry, Ann and Kim? Let me shift Mr. Gao now. And Mr.Gao, clearly there's a lot of activity going on with international relationships in China right now. President Xi is in Chengdu for the University games welcoming several national leaders as well, especially the President of Indonesia. So Mr. Gao, if you could offer us a perspective overall, the international view. And one other point is that President Macron, when he was in the Pacific, talked about a new imperialism.I thought it was an interesting term coming from the French. But Mr. Gao, if you could please continueAs Bill mentioned. I think in the email you gave the notes to try to pick up all these pieces that I really appreciate that on international activities all over the world, just as you said just two days ago in Chendum Province. President Xi hosted a very good dinner with the president of Indonesia and president of Guana, president of and also Prime Minister of Georgia. So I think this is our global southern countries so we can take it as a comprehensive view. And of course, I think many people were disappointed yesterday that an official of the US said that the state will not invite the executive chief of Hong Kong, mr.Li Zha Chao to attend the APEC summit this November in San Francisco. We know that this decision may be made under pressure from the US. Congress. That's because the Secretary of Commerce of State planned to invite the executive chief of Hong Kong to attend the summit. But nowadays the state has declared that they will not invite the executive chief.So we think that we feel quite disappointed about that because we think that the APEC is an international forum, of course. So we should follow the tradition. And another issue that I would want to talk about is that maybe it is very explosive news in science and technologies. That's just this week a team from South Korea said they have successfully tested new superconductor material. We think that could be if it's real.And now I believe that the labs all over the world are testing whether it is real or fake. But if it is real, I think it could be a very revolutionary industry revolution in the future, maybe as important as AI, because if we can use superconductor in normal temperature, that means at least it will push very fast on the controlled nuclear fusion and it will have a very important future in the new energy. We think this could be very important in the future. And we are proud of our neighbor's team. After many years of testing and maybe some luck, they can achieve that.So I will stop here. Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Gao and Kim, if we could ask you to finish your comments now and then we'll go to Jonathan Paris to talk about the Middle East. But then Kim, if you could finish up, please.Thank you. Okay, thank you. So I was mentioning that the French speaking Africa is extremely frustrated with the role that France played in their countries. I was mentioning that there's something called agents that the French use. I went to meetings myself with vice chancellors, presidents of universities, with ministers, where we go to meetings, just regular conversations like this.And somebody just walks in and sits there to listen. It's a French guy you can uninvited. You can't tell him not to sit here, you're not invited. You can't tell him you don't belong here. He just sits there and listens to what you are saying, goes back, gives notes back to his higher ups.And before you know it, whatever is decided in that meeting, at whatever level academic policy, otherwise it's under French control. Francophone Africans know this very well. The war that occurred in codevoir in the 2000s that really almost destroyed the country over a ten year period, it started because the then elected code of war, president Iborian, President Rago, he wanted to send away the French agents. The French said you can't send these agents away. They are part of our post-colonial pact with and because of that, they destabilized the whole of D'Ivoire.Now, if you travel to West Africa and speak to any minister who's not trying to be nice the way they say it, the level of frustration is too high. There are instances where ordinary people consider just being hostile to French tourists and French visitors. That's how much frustration there is. I mentioned how 60, 70 years now after independence, these French African countries, they don't have their own central banks. They cannot control their monetary policy.They don't have any control over their currency. It was tied to the French franc and now to the Euro by policy from France imposed upon them. Their reserves are all kept in the French treasury. They put over 500 poor countries $500 billion in the French treasury annually - and they cannot pull from it, unless they loan from it at market rate, their own money. And these countries do not have, they barely have any room, any fiscal space to fund their own development, their own initiatives.So they have to resort back to the World Bank and national systems for lending and bilateral instruments for money. That's why you see them go to China for loans. China is supporting them. They go there. Japan, Korea, Russia.They go there. And then when they go back to the west again. So there's plenty of frustration in this country. So the pulitas for us are not unexpected. Some more put it out, some all of French Africa, to send away the French when the Malians had their Pulitzers.Recently, however, the west, as Dimitri was suggesting, was portrayed differently through different lenses. He was like the hero after Mandela on the continent, at least in those countries, he was like the hero. The first thing he did was send back the French ambassador. The second thing is to send back to all French NGOs in the country. The third thing is to ban French media in the country and then finally send away French troops.When we hear about instability in the Sahel in the West Africa region, these are mostly French speaking countries and the international military presence there to handle the Sahel problem, the Sahel security problems, they are mostly French military. And these countries tend to accuse the French of not coming to stop the problem, but to come and ferment the problem. Niger is the source of what was called, during the Iraq war, a yellow cake. Much of the uranium that supports the French by such a European and nuclear industry comes from France. So this is what the sentiment is of the continent.The coup ETA in Chart is a little bit different because the guy who was the president, Idris Debbie, passed away in battle and is on suspicion of French activity. I mean, I'm telling you what is popping up there.There was a constitution in place. They have a constitution in place for those who replace the president in case he's not there. Speaking of parliament, as soon as this president passed away on the battlefield, the French President Macron flew into the country the next day and they altered the constitution to install his son as the president. That's the kind of frustration that people have. I'm from Cameroon.I visit Cameroon almost every time. If you hear the frustration on how French activities are in that space. So there's a new generation now coming up. Unlike those who were there at Independence now in their seventy s, eighty s, ninety s passing on. There's a newer generation disconnected from the colonial period, from the colonial days who are more anxious, who are more prone to say they cannot keep doing what their parents did and they have to take things into their hands.So these cool retirees for us, they don't come as a surprise. And the first thing that they will do, you will notice, is take an anti-French approach. Almost everything that they do, and when they do, that, the only recourse the Western bloc is kind of complemented to each other as states. The main recourse that they will have is to the east, to Russia. And so Russia offers an outlet.During this Russia-Africa summit that Dimitri mentioned, yes, there were about 17 to 20 heads of states. African countries face substantive pressure from the west not to go. I mean, real pressure, pressure on sanctions, by whatever means they want to do it. But the ones who went most were those from French speaking Africa, not the ones from English. Ghana and Kenya were more by language.I'm here in the US. In the English world, English Africa is more aligned with the West, with Western and English dominated countries. But the French speaking African countries, they all went there. This is their outlet. They are begging the Russians to come back and surprise Wagner's group.Pregozine, the leader, was at a summit on the sidelines, hosting a few of these French-speaking African countries in Central Africa, where there's also conflict, and where the Russians are most active with the Wagner group, there is still a backlash towards the French. You will be notified of all this activity. You barely see any in an English speaking African country. You will see them all in French speaking countries. I've attended many African Union meetings of heads of state administrators.And you find the English-speaking ministers frustrated with the French-speaking ministers, that what they are doing with the French and letting them do what they do undercut the continent. The only way for the French to get their raw material supply, as they do, is for nothing. If I may say mean, we may have a few French colleagues here. This is not an individual. There's a saying in Africa that takes away French speaking Africa, and France will go like Greek history, their language, their culture will not exist.Africa is a hotbed. That's where France sustains itself. And so there's a pushback on the French substantively. You will see more and more Russian presence in Africa. If the French and the west don't give Africa a better bargain, don't respond to African own aspirations, then this trend would be much more substantive and more aggravated as this population demographics, as the continent gets younger and younger.I can give you lots of details of anecdotes of my own personal experience. Five years ago, I was here in the US. We have a national science foundation that sponsors science in the US. Many African countries have such science granting agencies to develop their own scientific systems. I go to Cameroon and the minister wants to work with me to establish one in the country.We're having a meeting on how to go about establishing a science granting agency. At the meeting, who shows up? A French agent. Now, within three months, the French Embassy writes to the minister and says, "We are your development partners. We can support you in this effort to establish a French science granting agency.That's the letter. I saw it. We can support you. We'll give you a grant of $300,000 to do studies, to develop how to develop this. It's been five years.They haven't done it. And that's the model. Take ideas, kill them, take ideas, position yourself as their partners to help them develop what they want to do. Take it, share it. It never shows up.After ten years, nothing happens. These countries are frustrated, and China and Russia, the Eastern Bloc, those who have some contrasting, some contrast with the west, they are offering lots of alternatives.Dimitri mentioned $23 billion in loan forgiveness to Africa. Africans have been asking for this for a long time. They are strangled in their fiscal just. I cannot do anything. Hardly any African counties do anything without taking out a loan from outside zero fiscal space, or even from their own parliamentary budget allocations.So the west doesn't quite see it. But on the continent, the energy is so negative towards the west, so negative towards France especially, that if colleagues are here, when Rwanda had the genocide and Kagame came to power, the first thing he did was send away the French and switched the national language from French to English. They sometimes attribute that switch from French from being aligned to French to English as part of the explanation for his success as a country like Rwanda. Sometimes they give that explanation. Gabon has tried that.They've tried to switch language as a way of protesting and saying, look, this is hampering us backwards. So Africa is experiencing what I would dare suggest, a second coming by a younger generation. Now, in terms of business practices, industry, science, technology, what we discuss mostly on this, you don't see it again because these countries know they want to do it, but systemically, they are hampered from doing that. I can give you many other examples. So, yes, Cameroon is right about that.The president of Cameroon is 90 years old. The county doesn't want him at all. He's sustained by his mentors abroad and in the country. Discussions of the pudetta arrive. That's just hanging on for the guy to pass away.He's 90 years old. Sooner or later this time it will come up and the transition has to be military. They cannot keep going on with the same model of having French be the dominant player in their country. So it's a broad sentiment and even though you will see in public, some countries would want to English countries, English speaking countries would want to suggest that they're not with it within the continent. There's broad support for this.And the first thing is to pivot to the east, because that's where they don't have a history of colonial control. The east might end up being worse, but they don't have that history yet. So that's the only outlet that they have. After 70 years of working with, you have barely anything to show off, no infrastructure. The east is the only place where they know and Russia and China understand it.Britain is where you see many African countries align completely. So the forum in Russia, for Russia, I think it was a huge success for African countries, it's still a success in the sense that they are voting with their feet and telling the west, we can at least once in a while make our own choices of who we meet and who we don't meet. He cannot control us like that. So that's part of Africa's reality. The west is thinking of intervening in Niger because Niger has specific stakes in terms of its raw material for the nuclear industry.That one is especially troubling to France, and to the US. Will they intervene? How would they do that? It's not very clear, but the wind, at least, is blowing. Africa is kind of turning completely.So these cool tasks are not just out of mismanagement or people who know hot headed military stars. It's a deep seated frustration across society, even with me personally. I'm from Cameroon and I see this all the time. I just mentioned the Minister of Science who wants to do a science planting agency. When we meet, you see what happens out of it.I feel that myself. So the west has to rethink how it treats the global south with this change from unipolarity to bipolar to multipolarity. The same model cannot function continuously unless there's turmoil before stability comes in. But African countries are simply voting with their feet. It's their only recourse.The political class is pretty much in the hands of the political system, which is tied to their old colonial system. So the young military guys are the only ones who think that they can do something to save the continent. That is their can. Around the BRICS meeting and the BRICS summit coming up soon in South Africa, you will see many more of these show up. The forecast for West Africa.They are neighbors, they are director neighbors. And you'll see how over the next few years they'll be banned together as part of the anti-French, anti-colonial ban on the continent. That's the sentiment. I was going to mention this to our colleagues here. I am also working on a forum with the South African Council on Scientific and Industrial Research, CSIR.They have a defense team there, the most advanced R.D.D. defense team on the continent about doing. Something in the defense industry. We've talked with many people in the defense sector. They are on board with all these developments in West Africa. They think it's about time that they find a way to express themselves better.So they are deeply seated in frustration.The head of state or the leadership that the Western media will tend to portray as good governance, good governors, as good governments, their people don't like them. And they always quote Gandhi, if they like you, then you're not good for your people. This is a common comment across. So let's hang on and see how it goes after that. Then they would look at how this translates into their own general economic and industrial sphere.How they translate that into material gains in their countries. How they will do that is not very clear. How long will it take? It is not very clear. But the continent is definitely at war with its former colonial masters, who have played a substantive role in their post-colonial countries.I'll leave it at that. All right. Thank you, Kim. And just to remind everybody, Kim is going to be on his way to Nairobi at the end of August to take a position at the African Science Academy. We look forward to hearing from when he's on the ground there in the coming future.Jonathan Paris, you were just involved in a gaming exercise in Israel, and I'm sure many of the issues that we've discussed today came into play there. So, Jonathan, today is coming to us from Portugal. If you could give us a short update on that. Thank you. Thank you.As you can see, I like to see some blue sky. Israel was 38 degrees. That's about 90 something. And here it's pleasant, 73, 75 degrees Fahrenheit. But the problem with London is it's just so dark and cloudy, you just never see a blue sky.So I like to get to where there's blue sky. Listen, I wanted to give you seven takeaways from a war game simulation that I attended. It was organized by folks in Washington and at a think tank in Israel. There were eight countries or groups in the US. Israel, Iran, e three.Europe, China, Russia, the so called Resistance States. That Syria, Hezbollah, the masses and the Gulf states. I think rather than going through the simulation, let me just give you eight takeaways or seven takeaways. Keep it short. There's a scenario in three stages.Day one, day three, day five. And the seven takeaways, number one, for Iran not to have a bomb did not prevent them from being attacked. In other words, you could argue that if Iran had a bomb, they would not have been attacked by, in this case, Israel, the United States. Number two, the trigger of this war game was Iran decided to go to 90% enrichment of their fishing bowl material, which is a de facto not stated, but a de facto red line for the US. Given previous statements by President Biden's spokesman, that de facto red line drew the United States in the form of incremental escalations, even though neither the US.Nor did Iran want the US. To get involved kinetically. Number three, there was not enough discussion before this crisis between the US. And Israel about strategic objectives in the event of such crisis. Number four, the Ukraine War had very little impact on this regional war in the Middle East.It's like it didn't exist. Russia has now supported the ceasefire and wants to help Iran calm things down at the earliest. On the other hand, Russia conveniently found that this Middle East war was a distraction from the Ukraine War. Number five, everyone felt they won. Number six, when the scenario went kinetic, it was interesting to see that those regional countries I'm thinking of Saudi Arabia and UAE, who had been hedging between Russia, China on the one hand, and US.On the other hand, it clearly went with the US. When it comes to a military scenario, the US. It is the most important superpower in the region. On the other hand, had the US. Decided not to act as they did, it would be clear that this new World Order led by China would have prevailed, certainly in the Middle East, just because of the loss of US.Credibility. And I say finally, in light of having seen the recent Oppenheimer movement movie, my Oppenheimer moment is this I did read the book twelve years ago, is that there was a small bit in a scenario where three bombs or enough fishable material to make three bombs had been diverted from Fordau from the nuclear installations which were degraded and those end were three of the scenario of missing. And the Supreme Leader of Iran decided to issue a batwa after his country was attacked to go for the bomb as soon as possible. So you have to think about just the consequences, and the scenario proves the consequences of just how dangerous the Middle East can become in a very short while, even though we are currently much more engaged in the Ukraine War and much more engaged in Asia and in Taiwan, China. Thank you.Thank you. Jonathan, great to meet you and bring up the Oppenheimer moment. Peter, if you don't mind, I'm going to ask you because Mr. Gao did bring up the context in the news in the past week about the semiconductor revolution. So Peter, if you could offer some comments on that, please.Thank you, Forrest. Yeah, I'll get to the semiconductors in a second. I just have one suggestion for all the participants, Phil, which is I find the signal group to be so rich, but a little overwhelming for me. I was hoping that maybe if people feel that something I'm posting is of particular importance, you could flag it because I'm trying to keep up and it's so good, but sometimes I'm not sure what I'm supposed to pay attention to. What might be of second order importance?If you could feel like something's really critical, that would be great. I'll get to semiconductors in a second, Phil, but I want to talk first of all, I'm really glad that the focus on AI has moved away. That's great because I'm learning so much from everyone. I'm going to limit my comments on AI going forward to whatever I think is most important strategically, super fast, and then always end with something positive. So the first is for those of you who didn't see the White House convening a meeting of seven AI leaders to put together a framework sort of guardrails for AI.They came up with seven proposals you can read about now, I think that was kind of theater for the most part. And the reason I think that as an example, one of the commitments they made was to limit the spread of disinformation. And I posted in the Signal chat this morning a New York Times article about an important research report where researchers were able to basically trick large language models into creating disinformation that the AI companies have said, oh, we will never allow that. So, very specifically, like, how do I build a bomb? Turns out the large language models will prevent you from getting an answer to that.And then by adding a suffix, a very specific set of appendages to your prompt, it will tell you how to build a bomb. So it's now a nuclear arms race between large language model providers who are trying to sort of figure out a way not to allow people to misuse these tools, and a very vibrant community of people who are absolutely committed to misusing these tools. And I think the ultimate conclusion, which we've talked about before, is 2024. I think we will see just a staggering amount of misinformation being created despite the commitment that they made at the White House to prevent it. I just want to end it with a positive and then we'll get to semiconductors.I think the positive is something that Howard brought up about a month ago. And that's the brain-computer interface, I think where we're seeing some really dramatic improvements in the use of AI for good is around the idea of connecting computers to the human brain, primarily for people who are suffering from profound handicaps, paralysis or neurodegenerative diseases. The level of progress in that area is really quite amazing. So pay attention to BCI going forward because I think you'll feel good about the use of AI for BCI brain computer interface, switching over to semiconductors and all the Signal chat around knowing, I am not a believer in room temperature, the use of superconducting technology with room temperature and room pressure. So let's start with I don't believe it.I just don't think physics supports it. But the real issue and the reason China is investing so heavily in this is that we've reached the limit of physics for semiconductors. I mean, there are semiconductor chips now that have 4 billion transistors on them. So as a result, the reality of it is that we need to come up with a transformative breakthrough in physics. Allowing semiconductor Gordon Moore's famous Moore Law curve to continue will require superconduct.Now, the reality of today is you can get superconduction at extraordinarily high pressures and extraordinarily low temperatures. So the Holy Grail is room temperature semiconductor superconducting. And I just need to go on record that I'm still a believer in physics. I am skeptical. But with that, I will go back on mute.Thank you. If I could make a quick comment. Please go ahead. The limits on semiconductors have been the waves of light that are used to etch the semiconductors, which is now sort of 3 nm from this dutch company. I just got pitched a proposal this week for something that would be a breakthrough that would let us go down to 1 nm.So it's a different way than the dutch are using. I'm not sure, Peter, that I completely agree that we're done yet with the physics.Thank you, Howard. By the way, Howard's. Right. I'm sorry. When I talk about physics, Howard's 100% right.There's still room to go. Howard, I can't disagree with you. I just think that it will still require a step function transformation, maybe it'll come around, etching. And that sounds like it's going to have potential, but ultimately we're going to have to get to some form of superconduction, I think, to continue the transformation. We'll see what happens.But I'm bearish on the sort of chat that went through on superconducting. That was really what I wanted to say. Okay, I'm going back on. So, Alex, I'm going to ask you to sort of help wrap up some of this. But let me just make a comment.My observation of the Oppenheimer movie, which I saw this week, I think they missed a very good opportunity to highlight a very key woman that was involved. As Mr. Gao may know historically, this is Mr. Chen Chong, the very, very famous female physicist at Columbia University Chinese who was involved in the separation of 238 and 235. She was part of the Manhattan Project. So I just think, once again, we don't seem to take account of the east.So this publication or pre-publication from South Korea, I find it very interesting just in that context. Alex, if you can continue. Can I say one thing about that? Sure. Can I just say one last thing?So one of my closest by the way, I met U Chen Chong about 30 years ago. I'm just going to give everyone a super quick backstory on the movie. I'm going to follow up specifically on Phil's question with the executive producer of the movie. So one of my closest friends several years ago. He's a nuclear physicist from MIT, made a lot of money and so he bought the rights to American Prometheus several years ago and he said, I'm going to make a movie about Oppenheimer.And I was like, yeah, right, yeah, I mean, you're a nuclear physicist. Good luck. So he is the executive producer of the movie. And one day he called me and said, "I got Christopher Nolan. And then he started mentioning I got Matt Damon.I'm like, holy cow, he might pull it off. So Phil, I'm committing to you that I'm going to speak to him this week about why there was such a grave omission in the movie. I will get back to you. But we do have a source to figure out what happened there. Yeah, and there's quite an interesting chain there of very key scientists.So mex, Yamamota, I think you just made an amazing comment in the Chat that the movie's not even showing in Japan. Max, if you'd like to comment on that a bit. Yes. So Oppenheimer is not in Japan yet, sorry, I'm not sure about the fact, but I think I saw the call that the movie association is doing the meeting. It's under consideration.But as I wrote in Chat, the same goes for Bobby. Well, Bobby has already decided. Bobby will be in the movie theater on August 11. But for the Oppenheimer, we are not sure when we can watch in the movie theater. But here's one thing I should tell you about.The context is usually like foreign movies, American movies, like, let's say The Dark Knight is in US. Like in June or something, sometimes the Japan shows in movie theater like six months later or something. So it could be that case or I don't know, maybe it's in consideration because of the film, the contents of the film. Thank you Admiral Cody, would you mind commenting on that or on anything from thanks. You know that movie the I think getting some stronger, I'd say attraction among many Japanese so outrine stories were on the media.So of course, as Yama also said, it may take several more months for translation, but I do want to watch the movie, but I need to wait. And just a quick situation. Other than the economy and semiconductors, the largest concern is the 70 years anniversary of the Amistis or ceasefire of the Korean War. And the North Koreans called that one the V us day and they had a pretty big military parade. Surprisingly Russia sent defense minister Shai and also China sent parliamentary vice chairman of the Chinese Congress to the assessment in Japan, is that what it means?What's Russia's position and what's China's position toward North Korea in developing long range missiles and nuclear arms? So that is becoming kind of not very hot but wider spreading the Japanese concern about our communities. That is one thing. And the second thing is the firing of the former Chinese and Foreign Minister Qing Kan.He had been out of sight for several weeks and then suddenly it was not the government announcement, if my understanding is correct, just some media reported for his replacement by the former Prime Minister Wangi.Of course there were many rumors, but still we do not know and there are so many speculations. Our key concern is not why he was replaced. No, that is not our major concern. Of course, in a political mechanism like China or authoritarian totalitarian mechanism like China, Russia, that could happen at any time. So we do not care about that.Our concern is what could be the impact of his replacement or firing over the Sino US relationship or Sino Japanese relationship, especially the Sino Japanese relationship that has been the worst in last the 70 years or so. So what could be the impact of the reshuffling of the Chinese Foreign Minister? Of course, the Japanese are very familiar with Mr. Wani, but still we have pretty strong concerns about that. And one last thing is the North Korean military parade.There are two new major pieces of equipment. One was an unmanned aerial vehicle.This is a kind of comedy like irony. The North Koreans condemn the United States very badly. But there Amand, the aircraft vehicle is just the twin brothers of the US global Hawk and the Fire Scout. It's funny and interesting. Of course, there were several presidents like two years ago, the M One tank and the copy of the M One tank just showed up in their parade.So the North Koreans don't like Americans. Hatred is very hard, but they are also copying the Americans. This is perhaps kind of ironic, the reality of the North Koreans. The second thing is we have to be more serious. For the first time in the parade, there were what they called nuclear-armed torpedoes.I think it was announced last year. But their idea is to launch a pretty large midget submarine type, large in size.The underwater vehicles are manned, armed with the nuclear warhead on, launching the Sea of Japan and towards major Japanese coastal cities facing Sea of Japan or South Korea, and detonate the nuclear warhead somewhere around that and caused a big tsunami. Perhaps what they say is larger than the worst tsunami several years ago, one decade ago, ten years ago. But of course there are still many, there are many unknowns, but they just started showing their secret weapons at their parade. So we are getting some new information or intelligence. But that's still a pretty long way to go to get the in-depth analysis.So other than what we have discussed today, there are so many things that are happening in this region too. Thank you. Thank you very much. Alex, if you could help us sum it up, just like Admiral Coda just said, there are so many things going on. I think most of us on this call would appreciate it, if anything, this call will help us keep some perspective on everything going.So alex, please. Yes, thanks. Thank you, Bill. I think this call is very important. I think most of you agreed and most of you would not want to miss the call.Because I think, in essence, that we share a lot of things that we observe from all possible angles, and it helps us. To make all the unknown unknown become some form of known unknown that we can go forward to help discover and eventually make them into an unknown. I think the ending is something that's very important. Phil Fangi and I are working on some of the summaries that we're going to produce from Cornell and we are still picking them. I mean the Rudimental form is already there.We will share them once we are more ready with that. So for today, what we have discussed, I think we start off with Jesper talking about the Japanese as well as overall finance. This will help us understand the PoJ's current actions and what the possible ramifications are. I think it's a very good direction for us to observe, especially people in the financial sector. That is something that we need to be fully aware of and those people especially borrow the Japanese yen.That is something that they have to be very careful about. I think we talked about the topic. I think a few of them can combine to look at the Africa situation and Niger situation and that is more or less gravitate towards energy. Right? Energy is also something that Mr.Gal mentioned is something very significant and as important as AI. I think we all see that because without energy there will be no economic progress. I think that is something that everybody has to be very mindful of, although AI is on our radar. But I think energy is something that we cannot just drop off, especially with the current consumption. Energy consumption is still largely fossil based.We had a lot of discussions in the Signal chat as well about that. Now, this robot also mentioned quite importantly about the carbon exchange and the new development, especially the business opportunity down there. I think those areas are something that we kind of put on the back burner for a while. I think Jian will probably be able to relook at it and eventually we will have to revisit this one. That is something that is quite important.Now, I just want to highlight something I mentioned earlier is that I think we are largely dependent on the media that we consume, including the movie. I mean we mentioned behind as a movie. I think as far as the media is concerned, it's not entirely 100% accurate. All right, sometimes we may be misjudged to a large extent. I think it's something that we all, especially collectively, are able to kind of cancel off each other's so-called bias and help us see things a lot easier turning on and look at the superconductor.I think everybody gets excited about superconductors and it is something that really posts very good potential, especially for energy generation. But something that's very interesting that I don't think anybody really looked deep into this superconductor situation is that I think one of the signature chats mentioned is published, the two papers published almost consecutively by almost two groups of people. I think Jesper is the one who shared that part of it. Now that also indicates that people are rushing to publish this. The good thing about the paper is that they have very detailed descriptions about how to replicate the experiment.I know of more than 20 labs in China that have already started working on it, including the national lab, and some of the course are homegrown labs. Now, don't look down on the homegrown lab because they do have very good resources and people are ordering the raw material and they start replicating it. We will be able to see the outcome that it is really true that there's a superconductor not in weeks, not in months, but in days, because making that can be pretty fast. In fact, some of them have made the material close to what it is already. But ultimately what most people have never, never looked at is that this is from the Korean grapevine, that this discovery has been using a lot of AI to help them really synthesize and figure out what material to use.So this is not mentioned because I guess that the researchers probably do not want the AI to steal that limelight or whatever. So this is something that we can see that AI has been penetrating quite deeply with what we already have and something that we can't run away from it. Now, Peter mentioned the guardrail, but I just want to rewind that to look at it as a form of summary, as a form of net assessment thinking is that are we guarding against AI or are we guarding against humans who use AI? So ultimately if we treat AI like a life form, it will have a different development because it's different from us. All right?It is a human who wants to use the AI or misuse AI or abuse the AI. So ultimately that we should be thinking about what we human want to do with all these things. AI may have his own thinking and maybe he doesn't even care to give a damn about what we want to do. So I think that is something that I think we have to constantly think about and gut against the people abusing AI, people who want to do something bad about it, it's just a knife or a gun is denied. But how you use it is a key question.And whenever something happens, there's always an effort to take. For example, I think Peter mentioned the code injection to basically fool the AI. There are a few very good discussions about how to prevent code injections I will share in the signature chat later and all these things are effort to now prevent the possible code injection to trick the AI into doing something like mean sorry prom injections as I think Fungi just highlighted to me it's not called injection but prom injection so these are the various things that people are doing. I think it's very important to help us progress. I personally love AI but I do know that we have the tendency and have what they call tendency and liking to do something naughty. Now with that, I will basically say that we had a very good discussion down here and I would like to generate a summary and we will share the summary.Thanks and I'll hand the time back to Phil.Thanks a lot Alex, just close by saying our colleague Elvaro is flying at the moment and he very specifically emailed me just before the call and said he misses us but will be back but this coming week is his race series in gliding so we all wish him well. Thanks again everybody, great to see you and we look forward to many many more things that we all know will be happening in the next week discussing so have a great week everybody and thank you. Great call everyone and Howard Howard safe travels thank you bye thank you.