Speaker A:
So far, we have given them equipment for $3 billion. Wow, that's a lot. Quite a lot for a small country. I don't think Japan even got to the 1 billion points. And technically that's pre NATO. Yeah, that's true. Right. Me so you can do a little more? Anything else going on? Johan no, I don't think so. People are worried about security here and terrorist attacks. So they have raised level of the risk from three to four now in a scale of five, but I think alert and of course, you never know, it could happen. Is this mainly because of the cron burning incidents and things like that? Yeah, my mentor and colleague, Admiral Inman, should be in Reykjavik right now, but they're getting on a cruise ship that's heading up to Svalbard and then down the coast of over. He and his wife his wife are over there on a cruise the next couple of weeks. Invitation to go there, you and I. That was, what, 20 years ago? 25 years ago, probably, yeah, but yeah. So your video is frozen a bit. Johan you froze up a little bit. I say maybe we can do it another time. I'd love it. I absolutely love it. Well, I want to get to Sweden no matter what, but I'd love to get up there while we still can. When you guys meet, I'd like to join that. Well, that would be great, too. You did it once with us. It's just nice to see the face to face. By the way, our Prime Minister korean prime Minister? The President is in the US. Right now. Yeah, another meeting was yesterday. Chinese ships is passing by Okinawa a couple of days ago. They're just increasing the activity there. Well, I think it's a good idea that South Korea, China, Japan and us meet together to talk. I guess they would talk a bit about was it's a challenge to get Korea and Japan together, but I think for now, it's doing well. It was not challenged by Japan's Korea. It's more Korea China relations. They are really bad. That's why Korea was hesitant to join up with the US. And in fact, they had so much discussion going on even right now within Korea that this will be economic catastrophe for the South Korea. But that's what they are talking about. Well, let's hope it goes well. I hope so. But they say the battery industry and whatnot is all mainly dealing with China, south Korea is probably going to be a casualty of the pressure between power. Tom Sato, I saw you briefly. Good to see you. Is it cooled down a little bit for you on the farm? We are so incredibly busy. I mean, this has been a really bump up crop and post COVID. All these people come into the farm buying stuff, and I've been working in the field 06:00 A.m. Every day. It's crazy. Johan tom is a gentleman farmer up in the mountains of Japan. I have a huge organic farm and this climate change is working for us for change. But the temperature is cooler this week. It's been sort of a thunderstorm, so it cools down a bit. But it's pretty hot. Yeah. Here in Virginia, it's 15 degrees this morning. It's a beautiful fall is approaching. They say the Thomas Press is about 1300 meters and our price is 700 meters 1700. So it's a totally different climate. So cold. Sorry, Tom, I didn't have a chance to invite you for the dinner. We had to head back to Tokyo. So we are in Tokyo right now. I didn't say goodbye to it's. Okay, no problem at all. It's just I'm running around the farm and tomorrow we have a whole set of events going on. It's crazy. Johann has a farm, too, by the way, north of Stockholm. But it's more for fun. So you don't produce any do? I do so, yeah. John, good morning. Good morning, Phil. Just to inject some gravitas, did you see the news story about the winner of the Physics Nobel Prize for 2022? Denounced climate change no. As pseudoscience. Yeah, that's a big guy coming out swinging. And he's challenged any of the climatologists to come at him and debate him about it. So things are going to get interesting on that front. See where all that heads Jerry Halton will be on with us this morning. He's got Hurricane Hillary approaching. Know sir was talking about last week about the volcano in Ponga and actually did affect the award. Absolutely did. Interesting. I think you should share with all. Yeah, I sent you the article. I can share it with everybody. Usually I think those volcano ashes will bring down the temperature. Instead there's a lot of steam came out from the Tongas volcano that actually warming up the world. So that might be affecting us instead. So I don't know whether it's global warming is hawks or not. It's interesting. Tom, before we get started, as you saw, I included Salia's article, which was very interesting on digital electing the President in Sri Lanka. And since you know Sally as well, I don't know if sometime during the call you might want to make some comments today. It's the very last reference article. Okay. This gentleman that wrote that article is a friend, colleague of Tom and myself. Yeah. A Mekiskan guy joined us tonight. He's a journalist and I sent you his bio a while back and he's back in Tokyo, so I think he will join. Okay, well, you can just introduce him when it's here's Alvaro now, so yeah, you can just introduce him when it's appropriate. Yeah. And Howard wrote me an email. I think he's in Uzbekistan or someplace. He wrote me an email from Ulambato. They're having a wonderful time. Avaro, good afternoon. Hello. So, is the competition finished now? No, we have a rest day today. I went to see my family. But the series has two sets of races or what? Yes, two different competitions. So the first one's finished. Yes, and don't ask me for my position and it's not my best year. Well, you were number eight last time. Yes, but now it's even worse. Okay, well, it's supposed to be for fun. Consoling words. Thank you, Bill. There was an interesting article that someone shared with me today that was a debate between a doctor that whose name is not really familiar to me, but he's fairly prominent in the he's a critic of COVID policy, us. COVID policy and vaccination. And he got into a Twitter battle with Mark Cuban. But a lot of interesting is the back and forth between Mark Cuban, who knows nothing really about the issue with this guy who's a medical doctor and deeply invested in criticizing the vaccine, and all the various, particularly in the US. Versus, for example, Sweden and other examples where they were more successful in taking less stringent, especially forcing young people to take the vaccine. But I almost shared it with a group, but I didn't know it would be appropriate or not. But that's coming. And and our colleague Tyvin had wanted to say something about vaccines, I think, at some point. But I think it's worth looking at this discussion because it's going to come up again and it's going to have major implications for the world the way that they are. This whole issue of the vaccine and then the policies, the political policies, lockdowns, et cetera, that come upon that right. Is washing up, of course, right on the US election. I keep an eye on that one because that's going to be an NQR for the ages, in my opinion. Well, that's a borders on the biotech issue, which we will be getting into at some point. Peter, great to see you. And you're not driving today. Mr. Gao back. And great to see you guys. You want to see something cool that's unrelated to our call? It's just so nothing is unrelated. I just got a new laser, which is sorry, handheld laser engraver. So as a result, I'll show you a couple of examples. I bought this because it has the frequency of metal. So I don't know if you can see, so I can now engrave metal. These are aluminum business cards. So I'm making business cards for people with their photos on the front, QR code back. But the thing that I find just most amazing is that it's completely portable. Like, I can just move it around. I can run it indoors. It's totally quiet and it's kind of a miraculous piece of equipment. I got it on Kickstarter. It's a nice toy. Yeah, it's totally a nice toy. It is a toy. Well, my wife had a more disparaging. Can you weaponize it? Well, you wouldn't want to shine it into someone's eyes, I can tell you that. Jacques, great to see you. Back. Hope you have had a good summer. Hi, my friend. Happy to be back with you. And I've been missing you very recently. It's been a bit hectic here. Well, yeah. And look forward at some point during the call today to give us a good update. We'd appreciate that. Okay. But I did progress, thanks to the notes, the meeting notes that you are stipulating. So this is my weekly reading. Long, interesting weekly reading. Well, we try to keep everybody up to date. And I find for myself, just doing and going through the notes, it really helps me understand the discussion more than you possibly could do, just listening. Admiral Miller is back from Hawaii. Welcome back. Happy to be back. My audio on. It's on you're. Good. Well, I've been away for things for a couple of weeks, but I've got a different kind of education. I was taking my twin 14 year old granddaughters through Hawai, and we missed the fires, thankfully. But they gave me a different type of education. Any of you that are familiar with having granddaughters, and especially around the teenage years, you do get a special education. And I think I'm up to date. But that generation is moving fast. Especially when they're twins. They're twins. It's double trouble. Welcome back. I have a 14 years old daughter. Every day is a new likewise, Lewis. Great to see you. I see small I'm increased today. You're increased crete. Oh, increased. I see a small Irish flag. I didn't know you were in Crete, though. That's just one of the benefits of having a wife who organizes your ensembles. She wants to make sure that I'm identified since we see him. Now, let's figure out where Howard is. Howard, where are you? I'm in Colin, Estonia, at the Estonia Briefing Center. We just got an hour and a half of briefings. They're doing another hour. So I may be in and out a little bit, but very exciting. The whole Estonia e operation, where basically all government services are done with your digital ID card, including voting. And they say they're saving one and a half percent of GDP by having done all this. They're way ahead of the rest of the world. And of course, they have the highest percentage of unicorns per capita. Ten unicorns and a population of 1.5 million or so. That's quite interesting. Well, great to see you. And so, not too far from Johann, actually, tallinn, Estonia. We're going to be in Helsinki on Tuesday, tuesday hours. How's the rest of the trip going? The trip is going really well. When it's overall talked about it, that's two weeks from now. It's been quite exciting. We were in Mongolia, which was amazing. The Gobi Desert was amazing. Samarkhan, last two days, Central Asia learned a lot about Central Asia history and politics of the stands and what's going on there. So we'll have a lot more to say. Well, great to see you. And that you're having a wonderful time. Admiral Coda, great to see you back. And Jerry is out in La early morning and Hurricane Hillary is approaching. I'm supposed to fly out to Las Vegas Sunday night. Does anyone want to give me ODS on whether the plane takes off from New York or not? About 50 50. I just looked at it, it seems to be skirting the Baja coast down there. So see I guess see what happens. Those places need the water noto do you want to introduce your colleague briefly? Oh yeah. Is he Alejandro? Alejandro is my daughter's. I think it's the same school that our daughters is going and they're living in the same building. It's Mckiskan working for the Middle East and I think the Dubai company I'm sorry if I made mistake, is journalist for Petroleum, the oil industry. So I thought it might be interesting for us to hear what he has to say about his well not South America, it's a North American but Spanish speaking North American view of the Dubai and the world and the oil I thought it might be a good addition to. So Alejandro, can you just please introduce yourself. Very nice to meet you all. My name is Alejandro Barbachosa. As Naoto San says I work for the Abu Dhabi National Oil Company here in more on the analysis side, more than the journalism, but I've done the journalism before and yes, the following energy topics not only in terms of oil but also the energy transition. And I saw that today there will be also a section on Argentina and the new shakeup, the shakeup we had with the primary election of Milay. So I think that should also be a topic of interest. Well Alejandro, welcome and it's wonderful to have you with us and noto spoken very highly of you. So welcome to our group colleagues. So if we don't mind, let's begin and Mr. Gao, if you don't mind, if I could just ask you to give us a few initiating thoughts. It's been a couple of weeks since we've seen you. Obviously there's a lot of varying interpretations and movements going on relative to US china, but with the EO, the executive order from the US side and then some considerations from the Chinese side and all of these topics that we hear on the economic side all around. But Mr. Gao, if you don't mind, if you could just open with a few thoughts to help set up the structure for a good discussion today. Thank you. Glad to be back. At first about the executive order. I think that it is not something out of our imagination and we know that even of course we don't like it. But we know clearly that even inside the US there is different ideas, different opinions about how to fulfill the executive order. And it will takes about another twelve months to make it clear about the roadmap of the order. And I think of course the business circle of us will also do their lobby in the Congress and in White House and try to make the order more clear and try to build commercial cooperation between China and the US. And the other issue I would like to pay emphasize on is about the Taiwan issue. Just this week the vice leader of Taiwan Lai Qingo visit Latin America and he visit us before and after he visits Latin America and now POA have military drill cross Taiwan street and I would like to explain that why we do such strong reactions. We know that even Taiyun also visited us this year but we think that for Qingdo to visit us is more dangerous and we should do more strong reactions because that at first La Chinger acknowledged that he himself is a Pragmatic worker for Taiwan independence. He said that publicly and so this is very dangerous and just in several months later there will be new presidential election in Taiwan and Lai Chindori is the nominee of DPP Party. We think that if get reelected and that will in the next four years in Taiwan streets, it will be very dangerous because he may do something more dangerous and more extreme on pro independent actions in the next four years. So that we have to I think the mainland China have to do some strong reactions to our stance. And I think it is also some kind of I think it is also some kind of to say that in the next four years, we hope the Taiwan Street could be peaceful and stable. But do not try to provocate the mainland China. I think this is the major point of the military drill from PLA, so I will stop here. Thank you. Thank you. Mr. Gal, could you just mention it appears that the mayor of Taipei has been invited to visit China personally, I think that's a wonderful maneuver but could you just make a comment on that? You mean the current mayor? Yes, the current mayor and I think that the current mayor of course we know he is the great grandson of great grandson, right? Yeah, great grandson, yes. And of course majorly it is regional leaders because it is a city majors visit we do it many times before in the last several years. The current mayor and the former mayor, of course the presidential elector Koenju also visits mainland China and we think that it give that KMT can make a bridge between mainland and Taiwan and I think maybe KMT party believes that it's a good job and it's a good role for the current mayor to visit mainland China. It's a very in my opinion very positive move. Thank you for making a comment on that. And overall, Lewis, looking from the economic perspective now, a lot going on, a lot of data analysis and projections statistics coming up. If you could give us a perspective please and Lewis, is calling in from the island of Crete today. Yeah, it looks like good morning and good evening to all of the members and welcome. You can see it looks like I opened a very hot oven and got sunburned quite badly. Lovely to be on the call with you all today. I can give a little perspective of what's happening in international markets, but Mr. Gao, I'd like to come back with you with a few questions because politically and economically, china is at the center of the universe right now and I'll give some perspective from my side. But I'd like to hear some of your thoughts as well, if that's possible. I think it would be advantageous for the group. One of the things that's a clear standout that's happening to the American economy right now is the reassuring initiative engaged initially by Mr. Trump and now followed through on by Mr. Biden. Mr. Biden has exploded the US government deficit to the point of a downgrade by Fitch, the rating agency, two weeks ago. What we are seeing in the GDP numbers over the week was a continued marking up of US. GDP expectations. And they're not small, markups, we're talking about 5% GDP annualized forecast for the United States, which is absolutely outstanding when over the last ten or 15 years america has been running at two and a half percent GDP. So a doubling of US GDP is a big deal for the global economy. Number one. Most particularly what's interesting is this is significantly in the back of domestic investment. It is literally a vertical it's like a rocket taking off. If you look at any charts that I post on the channel that we use during the week to share information, the charts are very clear that it's a domestic investment demand led process. And a couple of implications for this is one, is it's going to be very difficult for Mr. Trump to be able to overcome the economic equation? Will Americans feel that their economic opportunity is best served by moving away from an economy that's rampaging? I think that that's the first thing. The other just political aside that I would give from how I see markets, it seems to me that Mr. Trump would be really happy that he's fighting basically criminal charges in five or six different courthouses. Because my sense is that Mr. Trump wants a revolution. He wants literally the only way he's going to rest power back is to create the kind of revolution that we were starting to see the seeds of in January 6, two years ago or three years ago. So I think that's just an aside. Mr. Gao, the things that are interesting to me is the there's been in international markets much hope for some kind of stimulus package from China. If you remember six weeks ago, I think I can't remember the exact phrase. Maybe Phil can help remind me, but you used a very particular phrase to emphasize that the alarm bells were ringing in Beijing and it was a call to action that the Chinese authorities were going to take on board, that the property sector was in disarray. If you look at the economic data from China, it's all of it, every major statistic that you can look at. And by the way, I say this not with any delight or joy, I am genuinely concerned if you take Mr. Musk's point. Mr. Musk, as a figurehead of a global debate, says that the United States, the west and China are like conjoined twins. We're interlinked. And so in the rampaging anti Chinaism I see in America, one of the side effects that I don't think that most people think about the consequences is that China is having economic problems. It's going to blow back in the west very significantly. So what happens with China really matters for global markets. The rumimbi is at multi year lows, stock markets are in disarray. There is discussion that the government is inducing pension funds to buy the stock market on behalf of the government to try and stabilize things. And what I'm really interested in is that, yes, it's great to see America doing very, very well. But if China goes through an economic collapse, it will have feedback for the rest of the world. And the key question for people in global markets how will China deal with its problem? So I'd love mr. Gao, if you have a few minutes to discuss how you see the response from the Chinese authorities to the economic problems that they're facing. Thank you. Mr. Gao, would you like to comment on that now or later in the call? I would like to give maybe a quick and short response. Of course, I'm not economic expert, but when I discussed with some of my friends in economics and they believe that for the Federal Reserve they usually use a term of wool cutting. That means when we look at the history of US federal Reserve, that the Wall Street usually benefits from the outside the major economic collapse. That means maybe next time. Of course there is potential maybe one or two times of economic rate increase in the future for Fed Reserve. But who will get the economic collapse? That's not necessary china, that means that the other economic giants of the world is also a potential target. China of course, want to stabilize the economics, but not means that China should do the big stimulus actions so quickly because of course we could wait and maybe we have more large space to wait. So I will give this comment. Thanks a lot, Mr. Gal Lewis, I can see you appreciate that as well. So Howard is calling in from Tallinn, Estonia. Howard, are you in a position to make a comment? So maybe Howard's not at this point. So understand. Peter, if you don't mind, I'm going to ask you, a lot has been said now about data. And even there was a report, one of our reference articles about withholding data now. So I thought, Peter, if you could offer some comment on that, please. Well, there's kind of a meme in the computer science world that data is the new oil. So, interestingly enough, one of the interesting things that's happening that Phil's alluding to is a much greater awareness on the part of consumers, businesses, governments, that the collection and application of data is ultimately what fuels this AI revolution. And so, for those of you may not know, for instance, one of the primary issues on the Writer Strike is that they don't want the AI large language model scraping the intellectual property of authors and writers and then using that and basically substituting AI created scripts for human created scripts. And that is really what it comes down to, ultimately, is an AI model thrives and improves by collecting more and more data. I want to give you a very specific example, though, to really bring it home. We talked about digital twinning about a month ago. Digital twinning is basically taking a real world system, say a jet engine, creating a simulation that digitally mirrors that jet engine. So Rolls Royce now has created an AI model where their real time engines on aircraft are feeding the digital twin model that they've created back home at Rolls Royce headquarters. And so the AI is basically ingesting all the data that these engines are creating and then optimizing certain tuning characteristics in the digital model of the engine and then sending those back to the physical model. And in some ways, that's an analogy for how all of these AI models work. They ingest real world data, they analyze that real world data, and then they feed out an optimization, whatever that means, the kind of product of this cycle, and it starts all over again. So everyone now understands that the issue is not the large language models themselves. That software is now relatively generic, in fact, but it's actually the collection and analysis of that data. And so to really drive it home, both Amazon Web Services and Azure, which is the Microsoft competitor, now have a digital twinning. Amazon calls it Twin Maker. So instead of just focusing on AI itself, they are actually creating an environment that's all about the ingestion of data, analyzing that data, and then feeding it out again. So pay attention. You'll hear a lot about digital twinning, and that's really at the heart of this data debate. The one other point I want to make about data is that, of course, at the governmental level and this kind of feeds in a little bit to the executive order. And I'll tell you a little anecdote about the executive order in a second, but it feeds into the issue that governments have. China is collecting a massive amount of biometric data, which everyone's aware of, and that's giving them an extremely powerful level of knowledge over their population. Again, everyone on this call is acutely familiar with it. But in the US. We're running into significant issues with the governmental collection of data. And as a consequence of that, we are falling further behind. Now, I'm not going to go into the politics of whether that's appropriate or not, but there is no question, for instance, that facial recognition, the US. Has encountered a tremendous amount of resistance, and that's certainly not the case in China. I encountered my first experience this week of the collection of my biometric data. So I'm an investor in a company that uses I talked about this before, we talked about last week copiloted cars. So basically there's a driver in a simulator driving the car. We've already talked about that. Well, this company for me to get in the car has asked me, as it does all customers, to basically allow it to collect biometric data on me, primarily retinal scans. And I have to admit I'm hesitant about that. I'm not necessarily sure that I want to turn over to a private company my personal biometric data, which, by the way, I'm not being paid for. So back to the point I made a few weeks ago, Phil, if the product is free, you are the product. And here's a perfect example this week of I want to use this system, but I'm not sure I want to contribute my biometric data to it. And then my last point, which is also, I think going to loom large in the future, one of the data points that's coming out of OpenAI is that it's costing them $700,000 a day to run Chat GPT and that's just unsustainable. Even with Microsoft backing them, that's an unsustainable level of expense. So of course the cloud providers like Microsoft, Google and Amazon love it. But we may hit up against a wall that this technology, as great as it is, is simply too expensive to be sustainable for a long period of time without some major changes. And that all has to do with the collection and analysis of data that Phil asked about. And with that, Phil, I'll go back on mute unless anyone has any questions. Thank you, Peter. Tom Sato, would you like to follow on with that, please? Yeah, sure. I agree with you, Peter, on your point about AI being too expensive, because I've been involved in AI startups since five years ago and definitely what the startups are trying to do is offset the computational to the edge to your iPhone or your PCs such that it's less of their cost. Really, these PCs and iPhones and Android phones are pretty powerful to know these AI models. But on the other hand, if you are like Microsoft or any company that has huge user base where you have to handle millions of people using your software, this option is not available. You do need computational power on your server, on your data center. On your Azure or Google cloud or AWS and it costs a lot of money and Nvidia is just fine with that because they came up with HS 100 GPU and it's great, it's super expensive. If you are investing in Nvidia or any of these processor companies which can do this, they will continue to do really good business. But on the other hand, if you're startups or if you're AI company like OpenAI, this is going to break your bag. And venture capitalists are not willing to fund a huge amount of money, they're willing to invest in AI. That willingness is there and they're seeing a lot of opportunities. But one of the biggest obstacle is that they don't see this unicorn exit model since debacle of WeWork and SoftBank model and all these unicorns here and unicorn there, that model is gone. So you have to be very strict regarding spending your millions raised from venture capitalists and you have to go and make sure that whatever business model you are in, you got to make sure that you start making money. So that is a huge program for veg capitalists and the startups and the AI community as a whole. But AI is extremely powerful technology. It's like microprocessors or PC or Internet or many of these huge technology wave we've seen before. And as we have seen time and time again, technology would overrun whatever protest the Hollywood may have regarding their jobs or job security or IP or whatever. Unfortunately, the fact is that these technologies are extremely powerful and extremely well made. And I can see today that movie scripts are far better written by the AI than human. Well, the script writers and the writers in Hollywood see that too. But what can they do except to go on a strike? Is there anything else they can do? I don't know. So yes, the cost is there, but the industry as a whole is looking to make sure that they do have a business model that generates profit rather than burn venture capitalist money. Because that's the way to go at the moment in this present VC climate. I think we'll see in one year to two years time that many of these AI tools will be commonplace, just as we are using zoom, just as we are using all of these tools on iPhones or Android phones. And I think there's going to be a whole lot of shift in terms of how we use technology. So I'm not too worried about the technologies. I am very worried about the human beings and what we are facing today globally in terms of the leadership and the populace we are seeing in the United States. Donald Trump still in the news a couple of years after he's lost the election and he's still in the news every day. In Israel, where I'm going in two weeks time, they have massive protests against Prime Minister Netanyathu because he wants to do a complete overhaul of judiciary such that the government has more control over the law and the constitution and all of that. Well, they don't have constitution in Israel, I don't think, anyway. So the leadership is going to the extreme while the populace are being manipulated by the fake news, which Saria willakum in Sri Lanka are friends. I think Phil has distributed his article regarding what's going to happen to the Sri Lanka's general election coming up with this fake news issues in place. I think we really need to improve our educational system, our media system, to educate the populace regarding what's right and wrong and what's fake and what is the truth. We haven't done that enough, I don't think. And we need to make sure that people are not misled by false leadership or false fake news. We have failed on these issues, which is really huge issues. We need to do more using our present media as well as the Internet social media to make sure that the people get the truth and not the fake news, that we make sure that our leadership, if they do something wrong or make accusation or post news or whatever, they are held accountable for their action. I think there's a lot of things that we need to do for the humanity, but I think we shouldn't worry about the technology side. I think we should worry more about the humanity and the democracy and how we are managing our planet. Thank you very much, Bill. Thank you, Tom. Peter, you have your hand up if you want to make a comment, but I just want to note that Max Yamamoto brought up that Elon Musk is now in Japan, which brings up some very interesting possibilities. Peter, please. Yeah, just a super quick comment. Mr. Sato's point is so good that I just want to reinforce it. I don't think that this is a technology issue with the cost of AI. I think it's a business model issue. And as he points out, the old venture capital model of just funding money and losing businesses is no longer present. So I just thought that was a really good point that you made. Second thing I wanted to say is just so people are aware of it, we have detected significant Russian AI generated stories into Sweden that are disparaging of how Swedes are treating Muslim migrants and they're flooding Swedish social media with these stories. The Russians are and it's very hard for the average Muslim reader to see that and not think that the Swedes are completely harming the Muslim migrants. So I just went there's a great example to Mr. Satosh's point of, you know, the Russians are actively, as we all know, using disinformation to advance their geopolitical goal and know, kind of screwing NATO up. But it's working in the sense that this noise has completely dominated the signal when it comes to this particular issue of Swedish treatment of Muslim migrants. So I'll go back on mute. Johann, would you like to comment on that? Because you made a point before the call, please. Yes. I'm not sure what to say about it, but of course we see a lot of disinformation from Russia and how they are, and we have raised our readiness for terrorist attacks. And I think that's the only thing we can do right now. It's quite difficult to find, to get the newspaper or the media to tell them that what they got there from Russians is not true, because the immigrants, they read what they want to hear. We are vulnerable in this case, definitely. I'm not sure what we can do about thanks. Divine, let me call on you. Divine, let me call on you. Please let me reintroduce divine berdugal. Divine is a rising good young guy in Nigeria and was a student of Jason recently in Nigeria. Divine, you in Nigeria, of course, just went through a pretty challenging national presidential election. You have a very active digital environment, and now you have quite a crisis going on north of you in the Sahil area. So divine. Welcome back. And I just thought if you could offer us a few comments from your perspective, what's going on in the center of Africa today. Thank you. Hi, everyone, and good afternoon from Nigeria. I'm here in the south in Yenegua, and here in Yenegua, we are not too bothered about the situation, although we talk about it, and I think it's going to affect us because we are part of the economy, and it's going to affect us too. But I think the issue is actually the knots, because the northerners are and they share the border with Niger. So Nigeria and Nigeria nigeria has to partake in the situation. And I think that's why our president, Mr. Bola Ahmed, is very involved in the situation. And I'm going to talk about think I don't know about the coup, but I think I'm going to support the coup because a lot of things is happening in Africa. And for the fact that they have had four coups, it means a lot because why would they have four coups? It means they are facing challenges, and I don't think their economy and government is progressing as it should or as the people. So Nigeria is just concerned about the economy. That's what I'll say. Because since they share common trade with Nigeria and the shareholders, if Niger has to reconstitute them, it means it affects the world of Nigeria and all its partner traders, the countries that are close to it, that trades with it. So if Nigeria is going to have such a reconstitution, then a lot of things is going to happen. So I think that's what the president of Nigeria is trying to protect. And then for the people, there are also Nigerians northerners that live in Nigeria, so they carry on trade and all that. So the safety of the people is concerned about a lot. But yeah, in the south we are peaceful and nothing is really happening. But we talk about the situation, we don't show too much interest of it because we don't feel it. The people are not they feel it mostly and a lot is happening there. I think I'm going to on the people of Nigeria and democracy, if they have appointed such thing and then there is a challenge for them, it means something needs to be done. And I don't know, but I don't think Nigeria should be too involved in it, even if it's going to affect our economy and that's why our President is involved in it. So I just think thank you. Thank you Divine. And in the context of the discussion on data and information, do you think young people such as yourself in Nigeria have access and can get good information? We can get from within, but I think we are able to get information outside because of social medias and all the networks. We are doing a lot, but we don't actually have any control of any situation at all. The government does everything. Thank you very much, devine, great to see you again. Jacques, you just made a comment and obviously the situation in the northern part of Africa has very much a French legacy to it. If you could offer some comment and background, I think would be very useful for us. Thank you. Thank you, Phil. Thank you for that opportunity. Because reading what our friend and Kim was saying about the last two or three meetings, I thought it would be useful to give another point of view about the situation, even if I understand the emotion involved in all of these things from our African friends. So let's start with Niger first of all, because Divine made a very good point about that. What has happened there has nothing to do with African young people. The coup leader, General Tiani was the head of the presidential guard and he was named in his position by the predecessor of President Basun, which is today in chain more or less on that one. The fact that President Basun had decided to change the head of his guard and to have General Siani to leave his position was the beginning of the problem. So when I spoke with the African friends at the time, they told know this has nothing to do with a fight in Sahel and so on. It has to do with a personal problem and a personal issue. General Tiani, I don't want to be thrown out of his position and that started as a personal issue. And this is why for several days you could not see the new rulers of the country. The reason being that most of the head of armed forces had not joined at that point with Chenny. It is very easy, of course, when you are in a town to organize a meeting with young people against the foreign enemy, because a foreign enemy usually does help solving domestic issues. But this is a personal ambition kind of thing. What is interesting is that there was nearly no demonstration outside of Miami. And similarly, you may want to notice that neither the French nor the US troops intervene in this me, because that was one of discussion you had several time ago let me go back to France and Africa and try to kill the duck. For your information, even if I receive things maybe bluntly, but at least I want to be clear about that. First of all, Africa is not an important economic issue for France. Less than 5% of our foreign trade is made with Africa and only 0.6% is done with French speaking Africa. So basically this is nothing very significant for us. Second, France is supplying Africa with nearly 60% of its foreign aid, which is about €9 billion a year on this one. So when you equate the two things, you think that you are not really in front of a big problem in French voter mine because we have been discussing several times the issue of votes democracy, the way it is seen and a few minutes ago was telling us about Sweden and Sweden issues. Africa is more a problem than a solution because Africa equates to immigration and security problem and this is really refueling the far right political parties rise on that. But, and this is a big but everybody seems to forget that at the time of decriminalization, agreements were signed between France and its former colonies. And these agreements are really two legs. One is facilitation of visas to come to France to study, to work, to get healthcare and so on, and sometime even facilitation to bring the families on that one. And this is written in a treaty. And the second part of the treaty or second agreement is defense agreement by which France undertook to defend these countries. And that is what happened in Mali, for example, about twelve years ago. It was because of this agreement that we were obliged, not obliged, but we did intervene in maddie more than 60 year of independence. More and more people in France asked for this agreement to be canceled. And this will be one of the topic of election in the future, and this will happen in the future. Then the relationship between France and the former colony will have to become normal, quote unquote relationship. From a very different standpoint, france policy and probably also European policy toward Africa have changed a lot since the last 20 years. The first one, and this is why I was happy that this was mentioned in the chat is fighting corruption. The main problem in Africa is not the colonial power, even if probably a lot of things should not have been done that way. It is corruption. It is corruption of the African rulers that deprive their population of the benefit of the development. What has changed in France is that the legal system has created the possibility to prosecute people investing in France with corruption money. Several cases have been brought to court and the money retrieve has been sent back to the country. This is also one of the reasons why you see some of the African rulers starting to be very careful. Put it this way with France about that. The second point about the policy is that French troops are now in support of African national armies and not acting on their own on their behalf. Interestingly, this is what has happened in Know. When France left Mali a few months ago, the new agreement signed with Niger was saying french troops will not intervene. They will intervene if and when they are asked by Niger troops to come with them and not on behalf of okay, last may not be the least. The idea that former colonial power like France, Italy and so on are depriving the African people from natural resources is very interesting there. Because what we can see that the country has decided to invite Wakner is that Mr Pregojin is getting for free these national resources in the payment for the personal protection of the rulers, not for the country, for the personal protection of the rulers. So it is difficult to see why on a rational standpoint, the young African people are promoting the Wagner in Africa. I can understand the frustration of the young generation in Africa, but making the former power, colonial power responsible is probably short sighted. The only thing that will save Africa is solving the corruption problem, because all the money which is sent there, which is gathered there by the economy, is not going to the population, it is going to a few rulers. And I will stop there because we will not solve the African and the African youth problem until they solve that themselves. Thank you, Filon. Thank you and great to have you back. Jacques Davinda, would you care now to segue this part of the discussion to the about to take place BRICS, which President Xi Jinping will attend in South Africa, and then the G 20 which will take place in a couple of weeks in India. But in the context of this discussion thank you. Thank you. The BRICS summit seems to be getting a lot of attention and internal debate within the BRICS members whether to expand the membership and also whether the BRICS grouping should provide an alternative architecture for the global south. There's an active debate that's currently ongoing as to how far the BRICS countries can take their agenda. For example, de dollarization substituting, the new development bank, the World Bank and the IMF. And I think there'll be some interesting dynamics at the Johannesburg summit. And the basic debate is going to be whether to reform existing global institutions or to replace them. I think replacing is ambitious agenda. I don't think there is consensus to replace the IMF or the World Bank. So it's a turning point in the BRICS movement and the Global South at the summit in Johannesburg. Be interesting to see what comes out of it. The G 20 summit is in New Delhi in September and that again will focus on india is taking a very active role in projecting the interests of the Global South at the G 20. It would be interesting to watch the dynamics at both these summits and track the outcomes going forward. The IMF and the World Bank will be meeting in Morocco in October, so there'll be a lot of ties to existing institutional processes and activities regarding the global financial system. It'd be an interesting couple of months ahead in terms of the debate between the Global South and the G Seven and whether to reform or to replace the global architecture. Thank you Phil. Davinda, if you don't mind, since you know our colleague, in fact you introduced our colleague Salia, if you could make some comment about his very interesting article that we included as reference number 13 today. Yes, it's a fascinating look at elections and digital media and basically Salia's core thesis, core point is that whoever controls the influences and deploys digital media, broadly defined as digital news sites as well as social media platforms will be the critical element to winning or losing elections. He was specifically referring to the upcoming presidential election in Sri Lanka which has to be held before November of 2024. And the current incumbent, who's our colleague, President Ranil Vikramasingha, is expected to stand for a full term. He's serving out an existing president's term that expires in November. I think the leveraging of digital media, fake news and artificial intelligence, all of which will come together in a Global South setting, will be an interesting indicator of how disruptive digital media will be in political processes in democratic countries. India has elections in 2024 as well and they've been at the cutting edge of deploying digital media for campaigns in 2014 and 2019 that Prime Minister Modi got reelected. So I think the basic thesis that Sally focuses on is the good and the bad of digital media in the electoral processes in the Global South. Thank you. Thanks Davinda. We'll try to get our friend and colleague Sally on a call some Saturday to answer directly and brief directly. Devine, you had your hand raised after Jacques spoke. So did you want to follow on with some comment? Yes, I wanted to talk about the corruption. You mentioned corruption. Corruption is here, it's everywhere. But the most consequence of faced of it is that the development is slow. We are not able to get to height of anything even like information. The government, they control the information, the vital information, so they spread the news and everything and then for we the young people, it affects our school system, it affects academic system and the economy to it. The situation now is very hard and I think more problems to face than even involving in Nigeria's situation. Because there is a comment on the call from someone about making comments for Africa's identity. I will get to that too. So the corruption is affecting a lot and there are consequences that we are facing. Their school system and all that. And even the situation like fuel, for example, petrol subsidy was dropped and the price of petrol got really high and everything is just difficult. But Nigerians don't really complain much. We try to cope with every situation and come out of everything. But we still face a lot here. And we are allies of the US and colonies of the UK, British. So I think we don't really have problems from them, from the UK or the US. Rather we are more intense. So I think Nigeria case is different with France. I think that's why they plan whatever and they cook. So that's what I think. Then talking about Nigeria's African identity and the situation of everything, I think for Nigeria, we live happily, we live okay, just that our government is bad and corrupt. So for Nigeria, the impact we have is from my own perspective. I'll speak from my perspective, we shouldn't be too involved. Maybe we should try to calm the situation. But I think the people of Nigeria as a thought of their own, and they are the ones in the situation, so they should actually talk about it more and carry out what they think best to solve the issue. So maybe the coup is good or maybe not, but something just needs to be done in Africa and the people are fighting for it. I think so. Thank you, sir. Thank you divine. Alejandro, I was about to call on you and I see you have your hand up. Seems like an interesting point for you to reintroduce yourself briefly and inject your thinking regarding what we're saying today. Great to have you, Alejandro. Alejandro again is from Mexico, but lives in Japan. Thank you. Thank you very much, Phil. My pleasure to join the call and meet you all and listen to a very high level debate on these topics. I was recently in Mexico for a couple of months and I had the opportunity to understand a bit more about what's happening there in terms of the political preferences as we approach an election year next year for presidential elections. And it is quite interesting what we were hearing earlier about the role that social media is playing in building up the political preferences of people in the global south. I must say that in Mexico right now, probably social media is the most important single component in the formation of those. You know, I try to take an objective view of Mexico under the current circumstances. I think Mexico is benefiting, of course, from the relative disengagement of the US and China and the fact that many companies are trying to invest in offshoring, but closer to home within the same trade area as part of NAFTA. And within that context, Mexico is benefiting not only from that, but also from a rebound from the Pandemic. While other countries, probably in Europe or the US, we saw the main rebound already in previous years. I think the rebound is really coming to some Latin American countries like Mexico this year. And to be quite frank, I hadn't seen Mexico in better shape definitely since the Pandemic, but probably for the past five or six years. So it was very interesting to see how a left government is actually managing to draw foreign investment. But at the same time, the opposition is doing very well in transmitting a message through social media of disenchantment with the leftist government. And they are very good at actually highlighting the corruption that has been there with every single government. And I'm not saying that it's not there, but basically trying to undermine all the potential achievements that you could see under the present administration. And I think that the case of Argentina is very different because of course there the economic crisis is a lot harsher and it's a much bigger concern. And I remember from previous calls. Alvaro of course may have something to say about this from his perspective. But my view is that also with the emergence of milay in Argentina as a radical liberalist, that proposes definitely different model in terms of governance for the Global South, for Argentina in this case specifically, he would also have to rely on social media to get his message across. And I think that depending on whether Argentine society really picks on his message through social media, that's going to make a big difference as to whether he makes it to the top job. Thank you very much, Alejandro, and welcome. Alvaro. Would you like to share some thoughts based on the overall conversation today? Well, very little that I can offer, but what Alejandro just says is fundamental because Argentina is looking desperately for a new way to organize its public life. They are almost the few Argentinian princes have. They all seem to come to the end of the roads and Milay is almost a desperation act if you look at him. It's very interesting, very elaborate when somebody chooses very good words, but he doesn't seem like a capable politician per se. He's never organized public life as far as I can read. So that's all I can offer about the French. I will write now a few things because I think we have a big problem with the African countries, at least from the European perspective. But let me just make a small note so that I save your time. Thank you and wishing you well as the flying regatta continues in the week. Elvaro thank you. Alex, are you able to comment at this point? Alex Lin. Yeah. Hi, sorry, a lot of information today and I'm sure your mind is working at high speed, but if you'd like to make some thoughts, please. Sure. Let me start with the corruption. Since we are talking about the corruption and just Google and corruption as defined by the World Bank is a form of dishonesty or criminal offense undertaken by a personal organization entrusted with a position of the authority to acquire illicit benefit or abuse of power for one private gain. Now, if you really look at the definition this way, I think a lot of times we are looking at the corruption as in the form of the official making more money. Then the easier solution would be that to pay them well enough that incentivize them from corrupt. But if we really look at the full corruption issues is that it may not be just about money or power in most of the country. I mean, just look at the Southeast Asia. They do have corruption. And the corruption is in a form that somebody collected money at the bottom layer and he has to distribute the money upward. I can say you want a simple incident, for example, that you want to get a blueprint from, let's say Malaysia and the answer usually is no, you can't. But you can pay, let's say about 400 ringgit and they're willing to print it out for you. Now, is that a corruption? The short answer is it appeared to be. But the guy who do that, he may not be able to just collect all the $400. He would have to distribute the $400 to his boss boss all the way up. But you start looking at this thing in Singapore context. Singapore, when you want to print out a blueprint, you go to the land office and the land office will tell you it's Singapore dollar bloody blueprint. The simple print is $400. Yeah, it is. And become a revenue. Go into the organization and you distribute to everybody. The difference between the two is that one is transparent. You know exactly how much it is. The other one that you have to figure out that is it $400 or $390 or can I pay this guy or not? So ultimately it's a form of transparency instead of really a form of so called corruption because this is just well, the cost of doing business. So a lot of time when we look at corruption in the Asia context is that sometimes we don't really object to it. It is a form of doing business. But when the officials are getting too much and then some blocking things from happening and channel all the resources to one side, that become an unfair competition. That is when we need to be concerned about it. But just going to circle back a little bit to where Peter and Tom mentioned about the AIS and all these things. One of the very key important things is that I didn't have the time to raise my hand while. I was doing something right now. And the key issue about AI is not about AI. It's actually about human. It is not the AI that script the actors and actresses images. It is a human, the studio who asks a coder to go and script it and create in their likeness. So are we going to blame the AI or we're going to talk about the human who do that? Right? So ultimately, the issue is actually the human and not the AI. AI don't care give a damn about scrapping the image of a beautiful actor and actresses, because AI don't need to bother about consumption of all these senseless and mindless, useless Hollywood video. So ultimately, is that the person the video know that can make money, and it's much cheaper. So that's what they go about doing it. Now, we talk about data, and data is everywhere. And making sense of data is getting a lot easier using AI and what's it called and quantum computing when they come up. Now, I'm just giving you example of last two days. Somebody just published a video footage, many, many hour video security camera footage of a coffee shop, a cafe. And we see that people begin to analyze that. How many people visit the cafe and how long did they stay down there, et cetera. Even without facial recognition, the person gate, how he moved, is sufficient to identify the person. Seriously. Now, with that data, the shop, of course, the cafe can be able to analyze to know that how long my barista interact with the customer, how long does the customer stay, how long the customer is supposed to wait, how many sitting down down there and stay? Very little. If you have all this information out there, you can do all kind of analysis. But what is scary is that the information, even without the facial recognition, you begin to be able to identify the person based on how he walk. All right? So sufficient computing power allow us to take a lot more information out from the data. And all this data eventually go back and go in and train the AI. Right? So Peter mentioned about the digital twin. Digital twin has been around for a very long time. And digital get much better right now. So in Singapore, we have a digital Singapore. We basically model the whole Singapore. Everything is in 3D. We created that now a few years ago. I mean, probably ten years ago. We don't know what to do with it. Just a nice 3D model. They move around, but increasingly it's being used, and it's being used in a very unique way. Now we analyze how the traffic flow. Okay? That is what most of you will do and decided on where we should place the traffic junction and what is the timing for the traffic. I think that is a very simple one. But we also design houses in the digital twin. So we design houses in order for us to optimize wind flow. Singapore most of the time is hot. So building the building in such a way that we're able to channel the wind and not blocking the wind becomes very important. So the design is done in the digital twin, right? Knowing the sunlight and everything, so you can simulate it perfectly. Now, what is important is that this design is bring out to build the real building. So now you are seeing that it wasn't digital data. It's not about real data going into digital for you to simulate, but real data going to digital. And digital eventually create something that is doable and export it. And you have a real data, a real environment, the two worms begin to fuse and merge. All right, so now we're looking at this one and said, oh, no big deal, all right, because this is do simulation and have something real. But what it prompts us is that we talk about the article that I share on the signal check. AI is creating data for itself, to train itself. So, yes, it can be an echo chamber, but some of the data can be real data. But how are we going to differentiate that one? I think it's going to be a key challenge. Now, what is more alarming is that by doing this looping, and I would say that looping of real data and thinking data previously shared about Ruby, we thought about throwing the question inside down there in more question and question. Go back into the engine, Ruby, and think again. Now we realize that by doing this looping, the system, Ruby AI is able to find things that we do not know. The unknown. Unknown become known unknown. Now, this is something that we humans okay, at least for me. Most of the time, I don't see it. But now the system, which is ability, you begin to see a lot of things. Using AI to help you, it's a very good tool. But what you need to worry about it is that will this create unnecessary or unintended consequence, something that we are not very sure and something we are not able to make a judgment yet now. But we are going increasingly digital. As what Saria wrote that article about, we are increasingly going very digital. The one that with ability to control and know and harness digital will likely win out in almost all the races, presidency included. And when you start looking at this one, for example, that we shared previously in the signature chat, also that a few countries, australia, New Zealand, and some of the European countries has increasing reduced usage of what's it called paper cash. In Singapore and in China especially, most of people just don't carry cash anymore. They are all using digital payment. So it becomes very logical. Some of the old school people like us, we still like to have wholesome cash, especially when you're traveling and you're able to do some exchange but increasingly most of the young people they are not using and they don't feel anything wrong with that. And a few days ago, Singapore just announced something that's very interesting. Something that's alarming to the conservative like me is that we are able to do the marriage solemnizations online. Two person get married, they don't have to appear before Justice Office to Solomonize, no pastor, no nothing just go online, register something that you are okay, nobody contacts about it. Come you are issue a digital token that you are married now to most of the people who are very used to zoom life and they are okay with that. But what it also means that it could what's it called devalue the moral value of marriage? What is the possibility and what's it called unnecessary, unintended consequence? We have not made any good assessment of it, which bring back, I think in the chat we have a conversation about fake news and truth. Unfortunately, nothing is right or wrong. For example, that the Hollywood studio will create the digital image of the actor and actresses and not paying them, because they can be using that as a base eventually create a more beautiful and more capable virtual actor and actresses. Is that wrong to do that? Well, the studio have its right to make more money the coder have the right to make more money actor and actresses just too bad you are screwed. So is that a right or wrong? We are not in a position to judge that. But we have to be very aware of the unintended consequence and those consequence will eventually protect our social fibric. It will totally change it. We previously talked about, I think the group of young people talk about education. The AI eventually will replace the teacher for all the basic education. What are the teacher going to do? They will lose their job and what are they going to do? Are we going to create a society that is what's it called educated and groomed by AI or groomed by parents and senior? What is going to happen in the future? We do not know. We really do not know. And the problem is that all these things are happening faster and faster, a lot faster than we are able to what's I call understand and hold it. So ultimately I look at it is that when we talk about truth, fake news or these things, sometimes it's only partial partial what's it called truth because there's some fakeness down there, but they have a lot, a lot of truth inside still just that it's not complete truth. So we are not in a position to judge that. But there is something that we all have to be fully aware about is that it's only cause and effect. A cause will have an effect. The effect is a consequence that we need to be mindful our ability to handle that. So I think john mentioned about democracy down there? The democracy a lot of time depends on how and everybody set the rule. The one in power able to set the rule, is that a form of democracy? Increasingly, we begin to see that, especially for Taiwan. Right now we are watching that election. The three parties down there, Light Qingda is one of them. Lighting is not the well liked one because he is underlying he's the one to think about independence. Anyway, there is DPP, what's it called, constitution down there. But the other two party OUE and this Kerwinza, two of them are against that. But when two of them are splitting votes, the both of them become weak. So a democracy is not really a democracy. Both of them are against jingle, but they are not combined and they split the boat and they become weaker lightsing. The potentially win. So a democracy now become again almost like a soccer game, tactical play. So ultimately, I do not know whether we can call that democracy. And most of the people are not exactly as what John mentioned. Most of you are not educated enough to understand that there is such play even in a simple election. Singapore is going to have a presidential election and we are watching and within the conversation eventually for us to understand as an observer of it, is that there's a strong candidate. There is two. The objective is that are they going to be able to help the strong candidate or are they going to take some work away, split it and eventually this guy wins. So there's a lot of tactics happen now and we are watching and say, wait, is this democracy or is it a soccer game? That is something that I think we need to understand and exactly as Jack, I won't have an answer for you. Is our voter educated enough to understand the play? Right, thanks. Alex, there's a question in Chat about the reported corruption scandal politically in Singapore. Do you care to make a quick comment? Elton? Is it, John's? Comment? It was in the chat, but it's just a quick question on the ongoing political scandal in corruption scandal in Singapore. Singapore have only one case of corruption where the minister was enjoying the perks while he is permitting some of the events, f one, for example. All right, so now in most of the country this will probably be accepted, but in Singapore we are supposed to be whiter than snow. Even a simple entertainment, we are supposed to report and not allow to accept it. So yes, it's a serious offense for the minister. Now, in most of the other countries this will probably be accepted, but unfortunately, in Singapore we don't. And we need to make sure that the person is at least publicly I wouldn't use the word humiliated, but publicly acknowledged that he has done wrong and his political career is over. All right, but is that a bit too extreme? Short answer is yes, it's a bit too extreme for most of the country to accept it, but that is when the country started off with, because if we are not so harsh on that, there will be rampant corruption. There will be rampant corruptions in our society to start with. But now, as the society progressed, do we still need to be that way? Mom, these are big questions that we're having a debate about it. Thanks. Back to you. Thank you, Alex. Maxi Amamoto, you had several comments in the chat. Do you care to give any reflection this evening? Well, one thing I say is we talk about the misinformation. And I was wondering if Japan is ready for like, for example, white paper from Ministry of Defense came out digitally, not published in paper, probably four days later will be published in the book, as a book. But they increased the pert of this chapter for the cyber, and also they added the Perth for Cognitive War, which includes the mixing information and information. And I think Japan is trying to preparing for these things, even including for deep fakes like AI. But my question is how Japan can handle it. Yes, sorry, that's my comment. Thank you. Thanks, Max. Jerry, good morning. And assume you've had a cup of cup of coffee now, would you like to comment? Thank you. Thank you. I have two or three points quite ranging around the world. One, on the issue of corruption, a friend of mine created an organization, a nonprofit in Portugal called all for Integrity, which enlisted journalists and the president of the country ultimately, and seems to have been quite effective in creating an anti corruption position in Portugal. Sentiment in favor of reducing corruption and actually apparently charging people with crimes and prosecuting. And they are not beginning to do this in other countries. I don't work directly with it, but I think my friend would be more than willing to come on this session and talk about what he's done if you wanted. Or secondly, you can look at the website. I put it in the chat. But it's an example of not just saying there's corruption and it's a problem, but I'm going to try to change things. He's a professor and he organized this, and it's become quite viral. So that's one. Two is in India. There's a B 20 going on Business 20 as a precursor to the G 20. I haven't participated, but the head of the New York Academy of Sciences is there, and the head of Tata Chandra organized it. It might be worth looking at what they come out with to get some view of the sentiment of the business community related to G 20 and what they think. And I assume there will be some papers issued or some news reports we could look at. Third. I was going to talk about Ohio briefly. Where I live. August Eigth Earlier this month, there was an election, and on the ballot was, as you may got a lot of US. News was a requirement that to amend the constitution of the state of Ohio, you would have to have 60% of the voters versus the current 50%. And in addition, you would have to get signatures from every county. There's 88 counties in Ohio from every county. A very burdensome requirement. This referendum failed. It's interesting for two reasons. One is that the vote was 57% not to make this change, which to keep the 50% level. And secondly, the underlying signal in this August vote was to make it harder to change the constitution related to abortion, because in the fall and November there will be an amendment on the ballot to make a constitutional protection of abortion. So even though the vote looked like it was a vote for what percentage it was required to change the constitution, the underlying sentiment was, this is a vote on abortion. So now here's the picture of what's going on. The state legislature has been gerrymandered so significantly that it's 70% rural, 30% urban, even though the state is about 60% urban and 40% rural. So the legislature creates these obstacles to democracy and preservation of a minority rule. When you put an issue on the ballot in Ohio, that's basically the state voting as a whole. There are no districts. And once you do that, the urban vote predominates 57% over 43. So this is a big battle between rural continued minority rule and popular voting. We'll see how it plays out in November with the abortion amendment, and of course, we'll see how it plays out in 2024 with the presidential election and a senatorial election. A very popular liberal senator is being challenged and is probably going to have a very tough race. It's a beginning of a shift, I would say, away from the kind of Trump view of the world, which is limit participation, more control back towards a more populist democratic view of how government should operate. Thanks. Thank you, Jerry. Admiral Miller. We talked yesterday. You thought at the end you might have a few common sense reflections. Thank you. Thank you, Phil. And thank all for your great. To share something that's sort of off of everybody's map, lewis mentioned that the US is doing very well. He linked it to some top line economic numbers. While that might be the case, a spotlight has been turned to another set of economic figures. But the spotlight has been turned in a peculiar way. It's been shined by a couple of country music artists. Two songs have hit the news big time, and they're causing debate way outside of the music circles. The first was Jason Alder came out with try that in a small town. It quickly became political controversy here, and it rekindled the debate of street riots a few years ago. More recently, it was a citizen song and he wrote it titled it north of Richmond for context. Richmond, the city about 100 miles south of Washington DC. And so he's reflecting on the rich man in that direction. I'm going to read a few lines from it. I've been selling my soul working all day over time hours for bullshit pay so I can sit out here and waste my life, drive home my troubles away. Shame that the world gotten to for people like me and people like you. Wish I could just wake up and it not be true. But it is. Oh, it is. Living in a new world with an old soul north of Richmond. Lord knows they just want to have total control. They want to know what you think. They want to know what you do and they don't think you know but I know that you do. Your dollar rate shit and it's taxed to no end because of the rich men. North of Richmond. Talking, of course, about the federal government corridor reaching probably down to Fredericksburg now and the military industrial complex that's concentrated on the suburbs of Washington, DC. These songs have gone really viral. I'll stop, but I'll recommend that when you have a moment YouTube, take a listen. These themes will be front and center as topics consolidate for the debate for Election 24. Thanks, Phil. Thank you. And I'll put the hot link in the notes just for everybody to review that cares to finally, Mr. Gao, we always give courtesy to the initiating person that commented today. So Mr. Gao, do you want to share a concluding remark with us today? I think that about it will be maybe half a month later there will be this year's G 20 summit and I think that of course we will clearly observe on the summit to see what will happen. And I think this year the September's summit of G 20 and November's APEC summit will be very important in the last season of this year. I will stop here. Thank you. Thank you very much and thank you everybody and Alejandra again, welcome. Divine. Great to see you again and look for everybody. Have a great week, hope to see you next week. Thank you. Thank you. Bye. Thank you. Bye.

